<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span><span epub:type="label">MURDER!</span></h2>

<p>The back streets surrounding Hatton Garden, in the
City of London, do not form at the best of times a cheerful
or inspiring prospect. Narrow and mean, and flanked
with ugly, sordid-looking buildings grimy from exposure
to the smoke and fogs of the town and drab from the
want of fresh paint, they can hardly fail to strike discouragement
into the heart of any one eager for the
uplift of our twentieth century civilisation.</p>

<p>But if on a day of cheerful sunshine the outlook is
thus melancholy, it was vastly more so at ten o’clock
on a certain dreary evening in mid-November. A watery
moon, only partially visible through a damp mist, lit up
pallidly the squalid, shuttered fronts of the houses. The
air was cold and raw, and the pavements showed dark
from a fine rain which had fallen some time earlier, but
which had now ceased. Few were abroad, and no one
whose business permitted it remained out of doors.</p>

<p>Huckley Street, one of the narrowest and least
inviting in the district, was, indeed, deserted save for a
single figure. Though the higher and more ethical side
of civilisation was not obtrusive, it was by no means
absent. The figure represented Law and Order, in short,
it was that of a policeman on his beat.</p>

<p>Constable James Alcorn moved slowly forward,
glancing mechanically but with practised eye over the
shuttered windows of the shops and the closed doors of
the offices and warehouses in his purview. He was not
imaginative, the constable, or he would have rebelled
even more strongly than he did against the weariness
and monotony of his job. A dog’s life, this of night
patrol in the City, he thought, as he stopped at a cross
roads, and looked down each one in turn of the four
dingy and deserted lanes which radiated from the intersection.
How deadly depressing it all was! Nothing
ever doing! Nothing to give a man a chance! In the
daytime it was not so bad, when the streets were alive
and fellow creatures were to be seen, if not spoken to,
but at night when there was no one to watch, and nothing
to be done but wait endlessly for the opportunity which
never came, it was a thankless task. He was fed up!</p>

<p>But though he didn’t know it, his chance was at hand.
He had passed through Charles Street and had turned
into Hatton Garden itself, when suddenly a door swung
open a little way down the street, and a young man ran
wildly out into the night.</p>

<p>The door was directly under a street lamp, and Alcorn
could see that the youth’s features were frozen into an
expression of horror and alarm. He hovered for a
moment irresolute, then, seeing the constable, made for
him at a run.</p>

<p>“Officer!” he shouted. “Come here quickly. There’s
something wrong!”</p>

<p>Alcorn, his depression gone, hurried to meet him.</p>

<p>“What is it?” he queried. “What’s the matter?”</p>

<p>“Murder, I’m afraid,” the other cried. “Up in the
office. Come and see.”</p>

<p>The door from which the young man had emerged
stood open, and they hastened thither. It gave on a
staircase upon which the electric light was turned on.
The young man raced up and passed through a door
on the first landing. Alcorn, following, found himself
in an office containing three or four desks. A further
door leading to an inner room stood open, and to this
the young man pointed.</p>

<p>“In there,” he directed; “in the Chief’s room.”</p>

<p>Here also the light was on, and as Alcorn passed in,
he saw that he was indeed in the presence of tragedy,
and he stood for a moment motionless, taking in his
surroundings.</p>

<p>The room was small, but well proportioned. Near
the window stood a roll-top desk of old-fashioned design.
A leather-lined clients’ arm-chair was close by, with
behind it a well-filled bookcase. In the fireplace the
remains of a fire still glowed red. A table littered with
books and papers and a large Milner safe completed the
furniture. The doors of this safe were open.</p>

<p>Alcorn mechanically noted these details, but it was not
on them that his attention was first concentrated. Before
the safe lay the body of a man, hunched forward in a
heap, as if he had collapsed when stooping to take something
out. Though the face was hidden, there was that in
the attitude which left no doubt that he was dead. And
the cause of death was equally obvious. On the back of
the bald head, just above the fringe of white hair, was an
ugly wound, as if from a blow of some blunt but heavy
weapon.</p>

<p>With an oath, Alcorn stepped forward and touched
the cheek.</p>

<p>“Cold,” he exclaimed. “He must have been dead some
time. When did you find him?”</p>

<p>“Just now,” the young man answered. “I came in
for a book, and found him lying there. I ran for help
at once.”</p>

<p>The constable nodded.</p>

<p>“We’d best have a doctor anyway,” he decided. A
telephone stood on the top of the desk, and he called up
his headquarters, asking that an officer and a doctor be
sent at once. Then he turned to his companion.</p>

<p>“Now, sir, what’s all this about? Who are you, and
how do you come to be here?”</p>

<p>The young man, though obviously agitated and ill at
ease, answered collectedly enough.</p>

<p>“My name is Orchard, William Orchard, and I am a
clerk in this office—Duke &amp; Peabody’s, diamond merchants.
As I have just said, I called in for a book I had
forgotten, and I found—what you see.”</p>

<p>“And what did you do?”</p>

<p>“Do? I did what any one else would have done
in the same circumstances. I looked to see if Mr. Gething
was dead, and when I saw he was I didn’t touch the
body, but ran for help. You were the first person I
saw.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Gething?” the constable repeated sharply.
“Then you know the dead man?”</p>

<p>“Yes. It is Mr. Gething, our head clerk.”</p>

<p>“What about the safe? Is there anything missing
from that?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” the young man answered. “I believe
there were a lot of diamonds in it, but I don’t know
what amount, and I’ve not looked what’s there now.”</p>

<p>“Who would know about it?”</p>

<p>“I don’t suppose any one but Mr. Duke, now Mr.
Gething’s dead. He’s the chief, the only partner I’ve
ever seen.”</p>

<p>Constable Alcorn paused, evidently at a loss as to
his next move. Finally, following precedent, he took a
somewhat dog’s-eared notebook from his pocket, and with
a stumpy pencil began to note the particulars he had
gleaned.</p>

<p>“Gething, you say the dead man’s name was? What
was his first name?”</p>

<p>“Charles.”</p>

<p>“Charles Gething, deceased,” the constable repeated
presently, evidently reading his entry. “Yes. And his
address?”</p>

<p>“12 Monkton Street, Fulham.”</p>

<p>“Twelve—Monkton—Street—Fulham. Yes. And
your name is William Orchard?”</p>

<p>Slowly the tedious catechism proceeded. The two
men formed a contrast. Alcorn calm and matter of fact,
though breathing heavily from the effort of writing, was
concerned only with making a satisfactory statement for
his superior. His informant, on the other hand, was
quivering with suppressed excitement, and acutely conscious
of the silent and motionless form on the floor.
Poor old Gething! A kindly old fellow, if ever there
was one! It seemed a shame to let his body lie there in
that shapeless heap, without showing even the respect
of covering the injured head with a handkerchief. But
the matter was out of his hands. The police would
follow their own methods, and he, Orchard, could not
interfere.</p>

<p>Some ten minutes passed of question, answer, and
laborious caligraphy, then voices and steps were heard
on the stairs, and four men entered the room.</p>

<p>“What’s all this, Alcorn?” cried the first, a stout, clean-shaven
man with the obvious stamp of authority, in the
same phrase that his subordinate had used to the clerk,
Orchard. He had stepped just inside the door, and stood
looking sharply round the room, his glance passing from
the constable to the body, to the open safe, with inimical
interest to the young clerk, and back again to Alcorn.</p>

<p>The constable stiffened to attention, and replied in a
stolid, unemotional tone, as if reciting formal evidence
in court.</p>

<p>“I was on my beat, sir, and at about ten-fifteen was
just turning the corner from Charles Street into Hatton
Garden, when I observed this young man,” he indicated
Orchard with a gesture, “run out of the door of this
house. He called me that there was something wrong
up here, and I came up to see, and found that body
lying as you see it. Nothing has been touched, but I
have got some information here for you.” He held up
the notebook.</p>

<p>The newcomer nodded and turned to one of his companions,
a tall man with the unmistakable stamp of the
medical practitioner.</p>

<p>“If you can satisfy yourself the man’s dead, Doctor,
I don’t think we shall disturb the body in the meantime.
It’ll probably be a case for the Yard, and if so
we’ll leave everything for whoever they send.”</p>

<p>The doctor crossed the room and knelt by the remains.</p>

<p>“He’s dead all right,” he announced, “and not so long
ago either. If I could turn the body over I could tell you
more about that. But I’ll leave it if you like.”</p>

<p>“Yes, leave it for the moment, if you please. Now,
Alcorn, what else do you know?”</p>

<p>A few seconds sufficed to put the constable’s information
at his superior’s disposal. The latter turned to the
doctor.</p>

<p>“There’s more than murder here, Dr. Jordan, I’ll be
bound. That safe is the key to the affair. Thank the
Lord, it’ll be a job for the Yard. I shall ’phone them now,
and there should be a man here in half an hour. Sorry,
Doctor, but I’m afraid you’ll have to wait.” He turned
to Orchard. “You’ll have to wait, too, young man, but
the Yard inspector probably won’t keep you long. Now,
what about this old man’s family? Was he married?”</p>

<p>“Yes, but his wife is an invalid, bedridden. He has
two daughters. One lives at home and keeps house, the
other is married and lives somewhere in town.”</p>

<p>“We shall have to send round word. You go, Carson.”
He turned to one of the two other members of his quartet,
constables in uniform. “Don’t tell the old lady. If the
daughter’s not there, wait until she comes in. And put
yourself at her disposal. If she wants her sister sent
for, you go. You, Jackson, go down to the front door and
let the Yard man up. Alcorn, remain here.” These dispositions
made, he rang up the Yard and delivered his
message, then turned once more to the young clerk.</p>

<p>“You say, Mr. Orchard, that no one could tell what,
if anything, is missing from the safe, except Mr. Duke,
the sole active partner. We ought to have Mr. Duke
here at once. Is he on the ’phone?”</p>

<p>“Gerard, 1417<span class="sc">b</span>,” Orchard answered promptly. The
young man’s agitation had somewhat subsided, and he
was following with interest the actions of the police,
and admiring the confident, competent way in which
they had taken charge.</p>

<p>The official once again took down the receiver from
the top of the desk, and put through the call. “Is Mr.
Duke there? . . . Yes, say a superintendent of police.”
There was a short silence, and then the man went on.
“Is that Mr. Duke? . . . I’m speaking from your office in
Hatton Garden. I’m sorry, sir, to tell you that a tragedy
has taken place here. Your chief clerk, Mr. Gething, is
dead. . . . Yes, sir. He’s lying in your private office here,
and the circumstances point to murder. The safe is
standing open, and—Yes, sir, I’m afraid so—I don’t
know, of course, about the contents. . . . No, but you
couldn’t tell from that. . . . I was going to suggest that
you come down at once. I’ve ’phoned Scotland Yard for
a man. . . . Very good, sir, we shall be here when you
come.” He replaced the receiver and turned to the
others.</p>

<p>“Mr. Duke is coming down at once. There is no use
in our standing here. Come to the outer office and we’ll
find ourselves chairs.”</p>

<p>It was cold in the general office, the fire evidently
having been out for some time, but they sat down there
to wait, the Superintendent pointing out that the furniture
in the other room must not be touched. Of the four,
only the Superintendent seemed at ease and self-satisfied.
Orchard was visibly nervous and apprehensive and
fidgeted restlessly, Constable Alcorn, slightly embarrassed
by the society in which he found himself, sat
rigidly on the edge of his chair staring straight in front
of him, while the doctor was frankly bored and anxious
to get home. Conversation languished, though spasmodic
attempts were made by the Superintendent to keep
it going, and none of the quartet was sorry when the
sound of footsteps on the stairs created a diversion.</p>

<p>Of the three men who entered the room, two, carrying
black leather cases, were obviously police constables in
plain clothes. The third was a stout man in tweeds,
rather under middle height, with a cleanshaven, good-humoured
face and dark blue eyes which, though keen,
twinkled as if at some perennially fresh private joke.
His air was easy-going and leisurely, and he looked the
type of man who could enjoy a good dinner and a good
smoke-room story to follow.</p>

<p>“Ah, Superintendent, how are you?” he exclaimed,
holding out his hand cordially. “It’s some time since we
met. Not since that little episode in the Limehouse
hairdresser’s. That was a nasty business. And now
you’ve some other scheme for keeping a poor man from
his hard-earned rest, eh?”</p>

<p>The Superintendent seemed to find the other’s easy
familiarity out of place.</p>

<p>“Good-evening, Inspector,” he answered with official
abruptness. “You know Dr. Jordan?—Inspector French
of the C.I.D. And this is Mr. Orchard, a clerk in this
office, who discovered the crime.”</p>

<p>Inspector French greeted them genially. Behind his
back at the Yard they called him “Soapy Joe” because
of the reliance he placed on the suavity of his manners.
“I know your name, of course, Doctor, but I don’t
think we have ever met. Pleased to make your acquaintance,
Mr. Orchard.” He subsided into a chair
and went on: “Perhaps, Superintendent, you would just
give me a hint of what this is all about before we go any
further.”</p>

<p>The facts already learned were soon recited. French
listened carefully, and annexing the constable’s notebook,
complimented that worthy on his industry.
“Well,” he beamed on them, “I suppose we’d better have
a look round inside before Mr. Duke turns up.”</p>

<p>The party moved to the inner room, where French,
his hands in his pockets, stood motionless for some
minutes, surveying the scene.</p>

<p>“Nothing has been touched, of course?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Nothing. From what they tell me, both Mr. Orchard
and Constable Alcorn have been most circumspect.”</p>

<p>“Excellent; then we may go ahead. Get your camera
rigged, Giles, and take the usual photos. I think, gentlemen,
we may wait in the other room until the photographs
are taken. It won’t be long.”</p>

<p>Though French had tactfully bowed his companions
out, he did not himself follow them, but kept prowling
about the inner office, closely inspecting its contents,
though touching nothing. In a few minutes the camera
was ready, and a number of flashlight photographs were
taken of the body, the safe, every part of both offices,
and even the stairs and hall. In the amazing way in
which tales of disaster travel, news of the crime had
already leaked out, and a small crowd of the curious hung,
open-mouthed, about the door.</p>

<p>Scarcely had the camera been put away, when the
proceedings were interrupted by a fresh arrival. Hurried
steps were heard ascending the stairs, and a tall, thin,
extremely well-dressed old gentleman entered the room.
Though evidently on the wrong side of sixty, he was
still a handsome man, with strong, well-formed features,
white hair, and a good carriage. Under normal circumstances
he would have presented a dignified and kindly
appearance, but now his face was drawn into an expression
of horror and distress, and his hasty movements
also betokened his anxiety. On seeing so many strangers,
he hesitated. The Inspector stepped forward.</p>

<p>“Mr. Duke, sir? I am Inspector French of the
Criminal Investigation Department of New Scotland
Yard. I very much regret to confirm the news which
you have already heard, that your head clerk, Mr.
Gething, has been murdered, and I fear also that your
safe may have been burgled.”</p>

<p>It was evident that the old gentleman was experiencing
strong emotion, but he controlled it and spoke quietly
enough.</p>

<p>“This is terrible news, Inspector. I can hardly believe
that poor old Gething is gone. I came at once when
I heard. Tell me the details. Where did it happen?”</p>

<p>French pointed to the open door.</p>

<p>“In here, sir, in your private office. Everything is still
exactly as it was found.”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke moved forward, then on seeing the body,
stopped and gave a low cry of horror.</p>

<p>“Oh, poor old fellow!” he exclaimed. “It’s awful to
see him lying there. <span class="it">Awful!</span> I tell you, Inspector, I’ve
lost a real friend, loyal and true and dependable.
Can’t he be lifted up? I can’t bear to see him
like that.” His gaze passed on to the safe. “And
the safe! Merciful heavens, Inspector! Is anything
gone? Tell me at once, I must know! It seems heartless
to think of such a thing with that good old fellow
lying there, but after all I’m only human.”</p>

<p>“I haven’t touched the safe, but we’ll do so directly,”
the Inspector answered. “Was there much in it?”</p>

<p>“About three-and-thirty thousand pounds’ worth of
diamonds were in that lower drawer, as well as a thousand
in notes,” groaned the other. “Get the body moved, will
you, and let us look.”</p>

<p>French whistled, then he turned to his men.</p>

<p>“Get that table cleared outside there, and lift the body
on to it,” he ordered; then to the doctor he added,
“Perhaps, Doctor, you could make your examination
now?”</p>

<p>The remains were lifted reverently and carried from
the room. Mr. Duke turned impatiently to the safe, but
the Inspector stopped him.</p>

<p>“A moment, sir, if you please. I am sorry to ask you
to stretch your patience a little longer, but before you
touch the safe I must test it for finger prints. You see
the obvious necessity?”</p>

<p>“I would wait all night if it would help you to get on
the track of the scoundrels who have done this,” the old
gentleman answered grimly. “Go on in your own way.
I can restrain myself.”</p>

<p>With a word of approval, Inspector French fetched one
of the cases brought by his assistants, and producing
little boxes of French chalk and of lampblack, he proceeded
to dust over the smooth portions of the safe, using
white powder on a dark background and <span class="it">vice versa</span>. On
blowing off the surplus powder, he pointed triumphantly
to a number of finger prints, explaining that the moisture
deposited from the skin held the powder, which otherwise
dropped off. Most of the marks were blurred and useless,
but a few showed clearly the little loops and whorls and
ridges of thumbs and fingers.</p>

<p>“Of course,” French went on, “these may all be quite
useless. They may be those of persons who had a perfect
right to open the safe—your own, for instance. But if
they belong to the thief, if there was one, their importance
may be incalculable. See here now, I can open this
drawer without touching any of them.”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke was clearly at the end of his patience, and he
kept fidgeting about, clasping and unclasping his hands,
and showing every sign of extreme impatience and uneasiness.
As the drawer opened, he stepped forward and
plunged in his hand.</p>

<p>“Gone!” he cried hoarsely. “They’re all gone!
Thirty-three thousand pounds’ worth! Oh, my God!
It means ruin.” He covered his face with his hands, then
went on unsteadily. “I feared it, of course. I thought
it must be the diamonds when the officer rang me up.
I have been trying to face it ever since. I shouldn’t care
for myself. It’s my daughter. To think of her exposed
to want! But there. It is wicked of me to speak so
who have only lost money, while poor old Gething has
lost his life. Don’t mind me, Inspector. Carry on.
What I want most now is to hear of the arrest of the
murderer and thief. If there is anything I can do to
help in that, command me.”</p>

<p>He stood, a little stooped and with haggard face, but
dignified even in his grief. French in his pleasant, kindly
way tried to reassure him.</p>

<p>“Now, you don’t need to give up heart, sir,” he advised.
“Diamonds are not the easiest things to dispose
of, and we’re right on to the loss at once. Before the
thief can pass them on we shall have all the channels
under observation. With any ordinary luck, you’ll get
them back. They were not insured?”</p>

<p>“Part of them only. About nineteen thousand
pounds’ worth were insured. It was my cursed folly that
the rest were not. Gething advised it, but I had never
lost anything, and I wanted to save the money. You
understand our trade has been difficult since the war,
and our profits were not the same as formerly. Every
little has counted, and we have had to economise.”</p>

<p>“At worst, then, that is £14,000 gone?”</p>

<p>“If the insurance companies pay in full, that is all,
besides the thousand in notes. But, Inspector, it is too
much. To meet my share of the loss will beggar me.”
He shook his head despondently. “But never mind my
affairs in the meantime. Don’t, I beg of you, lose any
time in getting after the criminal.”</p>

<p>“You are right, sir. If, then, you will sit down there
for a few minutes I’ll get rid of the others, and then I
shall ask you for some information.”</p>

<p>The old gentleman dropped wearily into a chair while
French went to the outer office. The policeman who had
been sent to inform Gething’s family of the tragedy had
just returned. French looked at him inquiringly.</p>

<p>“I called, sir, at the address you gave me,” he reported.
“Miss Gething was there, and I told her what
had occurred. She was considerably upset, and asked me
if I could get a message to her sister and brother-in-law
at 12 Deeley Terrace, Hawkins Street, in Battersea.
I said I would fetch them for her. The brother-in-law,
name of Gamage, was from home in Leeds, being a
traveller for a firm of fur dealers, but Mrs. Gamage
was there and I took her across. It seemed the old lady
had wanted to know what was up, and Miss Gething
had told her, and she had got some kind of stroke. They
asked me to call a doctor, which I did. The two daughters
say they can’t get across here on account of being occupied
with the mother.”</p>

<p>“So much the better,” French commented, and having
added the names and addresses of Mr. and Mrs. Gamage
to his list, he turned to the doctor.</p>

<p>“Well, Doctor,” he said pleasantly, “how do you get
on?”</p>

<p>The doctor straightened himself up from his position
over the corpse.</p>

<p>“I’ve done all I can here,” he answered. “I don’t think
there’s any doubt the man was killed instantaneously by
the blow on the head. The skull is fractured, apparently
by some heavy, blunt weapon. I should think it was
done from behind while the old fellow was stooping,
possibly working at the safe, though that, perhaps, is your
province.”</p>

<p>“I’m glad of the hint anyway. Now, gentlemen, I think
that’s all we can do to-night. Can your men remove the
body, Superintendent? I want to stay for a moment to
take a few measurements. You’ll let me know to-morrow
about the inquest? Mr. Orchard, you might stay a
moment also; there is a question or two I want to ask
you.”</p>

<p>The Superintendent had sent one of his men for a
stretcher, and the remains were lifted on and carried
slowly down to the waiting taxi. With an exchange of
good-nights, the local men withdrew, leaving Inspector
French, Mr. Duke, Orchard, and the two plain-clothes
men from the Yard in charge of the premises.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span><span epub:type="label">THE FIRM OF DUKE AND PEABODY</span></h2>

<p>When Inspector French ushered the clerk, Orchard, into
the inner office, they found Mr. Duke pacing the floor
with an expression of utter mystification imprinted on
his features.</p>

<p>“I say, Inspector, here’s a puzzle,” he cried. “I happened
to look behind the safe door, and I find it has been
opened with a key. I thought at first it had been broken
or forced or the lock somehow picked. But I see it is
unlocked.”</p>

<p>“Yes, I noticed that, sir,” French answered. “But
I don’t follow you. What is the mystery about that?”</p>

<p>“Why, the key, of course. To my certain knowledge
there were only two keys in existence. One I keep on
my ring, which is chained to my belt and never leaves
me day nor night. There it is. The other is lodged with
my bankers, where no one could possibly get at it. Now,
where did the thief get the key that is now in the lock?”</p>

<p>“That is one of the things we have to find out,” French
replied. “You may perhaps think it strange, but a
point of that kind, which at first seems to deepen the
mystery, often proves a blessing in disguise. It provides
another point of attack, you understand, and frequently
it narrows down the area of inquiry. You haven’t touched
the key, I hope?”</p>

<p>“No. I remembered what you said about finger prints.”</p>

<p>“Good. Now, gentlemen, if you will please sit down,
I want to ask you a few questions. I’ll take you first,
Mr. Orchard. I have your name, and your address is
Bloomsbury Square. Now tell me, is that your home?”</p>

<p>The young fellow answered the questions without hesitation,
and French noted approvingly his direct glance
and the evident candour with which he spoke. The
Bloomsbury Square address, it appeared, was that of
a boarding house, the clerk’s home being in Somerset. He
had left the office at about half-past five that afternoon,
Mr. Gething being then almost ready to follow. Mr.
Gething was usually the last out of the office. Orchard
had noticed nothing unusual in his manner that day,
though for the last two or three weeks he had seemed
somewhat moody and depressed. Orchard had gone from
the office to Liverpool Street, where he had caught the
5.52 to Ilford. There he had had supper with a friend,
a man called Forrest, a clerk in a shipping office in
Fenchurch Street. He had left about 9.30, getting back
to town a little before 10.00. The rain had stopped, and
as he did not get as much exercise as he could have wished,
he resolved to walk home from the station. Hatton
Garden was but little out of his way, and as he approached
it he remembered that he had left in his desk a book he
had changed at the library at lunch time. He had decided
to call in and get it, so as to read for a while before
going to sleep. He had done so, and had found Mr.
Gething’s body, as he had already explained. The outer
street door had been closed, and he had opened it with
his latch key. Both the office doors were open, that
between the landing and the outer office and that of Mr.
Duke’s room. The lights were on everywhere, except
that in the outer office only the single central bulb was
burning, the desk lamps being off. He had seen no one
about the offices.</p>

<p>French, having complimented the young fellow on his
clear statement, bade him good-night and sent him home.
But as he passed out of the room he whispered to one
of his men, who promptly nodded and also disappeared.
French turned to Mr. Duke.</p>

<p>“That seems a straightforward young fellow,” he observed.
“What is your opinion of him?”</p>

<p>“Absolutely straightforward.” The acting partner
spoke with decision. “He has been with me for over four
years, and I have always found him most conscientious
and satisfactory. Indeed. I have been very fortunate
in my whole staff. I think I could say the same of
them all.”</p>

<p>“I congratulate you, Mr. Duke. Perhaps now you
would tell me something about your firm and your various
employees.”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke, though still extremely agitated, was controlling
his emotion and answered in calm tones.</p>

<p>“The business is not a large one, and at the present
time is virtually controlled by myself. Peabody, though
not so old as I am, has been troubled by bad health and
has more or less gone to pieces. He seldom comes to
the office, and never undertakes any work. The junior
partner, Sinnamond, is travelling in the East, and has
been for some months. We carry on the usual trade of diamond
merchants, and have a small branch establishment
in Amsterdam. Indeed, I divide my own time almost
equally between London and Amsterdam. We occupy
only these two rooms which you have seen. Our staff
in the outer office consists, or rather consisted, of five,
a chief and confidential clerk, the poor man who has just
been killed, a young man called Harrington, who is qualifying
for a partnership, Orchard, a girl typist, and an
office boy. Besides them, we employ an outside man, a
traveller, a Dutchman named Vanderkemp. He attends
sales and so on, and when not on the road works in the
Amsterdam branch.”</p>

<p>Inspector French noted all the information Mr. Duke
could give about each of the persons mentioned.</p>

<p>“Now this Mr. Gething,” he resumed. “You say he
has been with you for over twenty years, and that you
had full confidence in him, but I must ask the question,
Are you sure that your confidence was not misplaced?
In other words, are you satisfied that he was not himself
after your diamonds?”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke shook his head decisively.</p>

<p>“I am positive he was not,” he declared warmly and
with something of indignation showing in his manner. “I
should as soon accuse my own son, if I had one. No,
I’d stake my life on it, Gething was no thief.”</p>

<p>“I’m glad to hear you say that, Mr. Duke,” the other
returned smoothly. “Now, then, your office staff eliminated,
tell me is there any one that you suspect?”</p>

<p>“Not a creature!” Mr. Duke was equally emphatic.
“Not a single creature! I can’t imagine any one who
would have done such a thing. I wish I could.”</p>

<p>The Inspector hesitated.</p>

<p>“Of course, sir, you understand that if you were to
mention a name it would not in any way bias me against
that person. It would only mean that I should make inquiries.
Don’t think you would be getting any one into
trouble.”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke smiled grimly.</p>

<p>“You needn’t be afraid. If I had any suspicion I should
be only too glad to tell you, but I have none.”</p>

<p>“When, sir, did you last see your late clerk?”</p>

<p>“About half-past four this evening. I left the office at
that time, about an hour earlier than usual, because I
had a business appointment for a quarter to five with
Mr. Peters, of Lincoln’s Inn, my solicitor.”</p>

<p>“And you did not return to the office?”</p>

<p>“No. I sat with Mr. Peters for about half an hour,
then as my business was not finished and he wanted to
square up for the night, we decided to dine together at
my club in Gower Street. It was not worth while going
back to my own office, so I went straight from Peters’ to
the club.”</p>

<p>“And you did not notice anything peculiar about Mr.
Gething?”</p>

<p>“Not specially on that night. He seemed absolutely
as usual.”</p>

<p>“How do you mean, not specially on that night?”</p>

<p>“He had been, I thought, a little depressed for two
or three weeks previously, as if he had some trouble on
his mind. I asked when first I noticed it if there was
anything wrong, but he murmured something about home
troubles, about his wife not being so well—she is a
chronic invalid. He was not communicative, and I did
not press the matter. But he was no worse this afternoon
than during the last fortnight.”</p>

<p>“I see. Now, what brought him back to the office
to-night?”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke made a gesture of bewilderment.</p>

<p>“I have no idea,” he declared. “There was nothing!
Nothing, at least, that I know of or can imagine. We
were not specially busy, and as far as I can think, he
was well up to date with his work.”</p>

<p>“Is there a postal delivery between half-past four and
the time your office closes?”</p>

<p>“There is, and of course there might have been a
telegram or a caller or a note delivered by hand. But
suppose there had been something important enough to
require immediate attention, Gething would never have
taken action without consulting me. He had only to
ring me up.”</p>

<p>“He knew where you were, then?”</p>

<p>“No, but he could have rung up my home. They
knew there where I was, as when I had decided to dine
at the club, I ’phoned home to say so.”</p>

<p>“But were you in your club all the evening? Excuse
my pressing the matter, but I think it’s important to
make sure the man did not try to communicate with you.”</p>

<p>“I see your point. Yes, I stayed chatting with Mr.
Peters until almost 9.30. Then, feeling tired from a
long day’s thought about business, I decided a little exercise
would be pleasant, and I walked home. I reached
my house a minute or two after ten.”</p>

<p>“That seems conclusive. All the same, sir, I think you
should make sure when you reach home that no call
was made.”</p>

<p>“I shall do so certainly, but my parlourmaid is very
reliable in such matters, and I am certain she would
have told me of any.”</p>

<p>Inspector French sat for a few seconds lost in thought,
and then began on another point.</p>

<p>“You tell me that you had £33,000 worth of diamonds
in the safe. Is not that an unusually large amount to
keep in an office?”</p>

<p>“You are quite right; it is too large. I consider myself
very much to blame, both for that and in the matter of
the insurance. But I had not meant to keep the stones
there long. Indeed, negotiations for the sale of the larger
portion were actually in progress. On the other hand, it
is due to myself to point out that the safe is of a very
efficient modern pattern.”</p>

<p>“That is so, sir. Now can you tell me who, besides
yourself, knew of the existence of those stones?”</p>

<p>“I’m afraid,” Mr. Duke admitted despondently,
“there was no secret about it. Gething knew, of course.
He was entirely in my confidence about such matters.
Vanderkemp, my outdoor man, knew that I had made
some heavy purchases recently, as he not only conducted
the negotiations, but personally brought the stones to
the office. Besides, there were letters about them, accessible
to all the staff. I am afraid you may take it
that every one in the office knew there was a lot of stuff
there, though probably not the exact amount.”</p>

<p>“And the staff may have talked to outsiders. Young
people will brag, especially if they are ‘keeping company,’
as the Irish say.”</p>

<p>“I fear that is so,” Mr. Duke agreed, as if deprecating
the singular habits of the young.</p>

<p>The Inspector changed his position uneasily, and his
hand stole to his pipe. But he checked himself and
resumed his questioning. He obtained from Mr. Duke
a detailed list of the missing stones, then turned to a
new point.</p>

<p>“About that thousand pounds in notes. I suppose
you haven’t got the numbers?”</p>

<p>“No, unfortunately. But the bank might know them.”</p>

<p>“We shall inquire. Now, Mr. Duke, about the key.
That is another singular thing.”</p>

<p>“It is an amazing thing. I absolutely cannot understand
where it came from. As I said, this one never
leaves, nor has left, my personal possession, and the
other, the <span class="it">only</span> other one, is equally inaccessible in my
bank.”</p>

<p>“You always personally opened or closed the safe?”</p>

<p>“Always, or at least it was done by my instructions
and in my presence.”</p>

<p>“Oh, well, that is not quite the same thing, you know.
Who has ever opened or closed it for you?”</p>

<p>“Gething; and not once or twice, but scores, I suppose
I might say hundreds of times. But always in my
presence.”</p>

<p>“I understand that, sir. Any one else besides Mr.
Gething?”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke hesitated.</p>

<p>“No,” he said slowly, “no one else. He was the only
one I trusted to that extent. And I had reason to trust
him,” he added, with a touch of defiance.</p>

<p>“Of course, sir. I recognise that,” French answered
smoothly. “I am only trying to get the facts clear in
my mind. I take it, then, that the deceased gentleman
was the only person, other than yourself, who ever handled
your key? It was not within reach of any one in your
house; your servants, for example?”</p>

<p>“No, I never let it lie about. Even at night I kept
it attached to me.”</p>

<p>The Inspector rose from his chair.</p>

<p>“Well, sir,” he said politely, “I’m sorry to have kept
you so long. Just let me take your finger prints to compare
with those in the safe, and I have done. Shall
I ring up for a taxi for you?”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke looked at his watch.</p>

<p>“Why, it is nearly one,” he exclaimed. “Yes, a taxi
by all means, please.”</p>

<p>Though Inspector French had said that everything
possible had been done that night, he did not follow Mr.
Duke from the building. Instead, he returned to the
inner office and set himself unhurriedly to make a further
and more thorough examination of its contents.</p>

<p>He began with the key of the safe. Removing it by the
shank with a pair of special pincers, he tested the handle
for finger prints, but without success. Looking then at
the other end, a slight roughness on one of the wards attracted
his attention, and on scrutinising it with his lens,
a series of fine parallel scratches was revealed on all the
surfaces. “So that’s it, is it?” he said to himself complacently.
“Manufacturers don’t leave keys of valuable
safes half finished. This one has been cut with a file,
and probably,”—he again scrutinised the workmanship—“by
an amateur at that. And according to this man Duke,
old Gething was the only one that had the handling of
the key—that could have taken a wax impression. Well,
well; we shall see.”</p>

<p>He locked the safe, dropped the key into his pocket,
and turned to the fireplace, soliloquising the while.</p>

<p>The fire had still been glowing red when the crime was
discovered shortly after ten o’clock. That meant, of
course, that it had been deliberately stoked up, because
the fire in the outer office was cold and dead. Some one,
therefore, had intended to spend a considerable time in
the office. Who could it have been?</p>

<p>As far as French could see, no one but Gething. But
if Gething were going to commit the robbery—a matter
of perhaps ten minutes at the outside—he would not
have required a fire. No, this looked as if there really
was some business to be done, something that would take
time to carry through. But then, if so, why had Gething
not consulted Mr. Duke? French noted the point, to be
considered further in the light of future discoveries.</p>

<p>But as to the identity of the person who had built up
the fire there should be no doubt. Finger prints again!
The coal shovel had a smooth, varnished wooden handle,
admirably suited for records, and a short test with the
white powder revealed thereon an excellent impression of
a right thumb.</p>

<p>The poker next received attention, and here French
made his second discovery. Picking it up with the pincers
in the same careful way in which he had handled the key,
he noticed on the handle a dark brown stain. Beside this
stain, and sticking to the metal, was a single white hair.</p>

<p>That he held in his hand the instrument with which the
crime was committed seemed certain, and he eagerly tested
the other end for prints. But this time he was baffled.
Nothing showed at the places where finger marks might
have been expected. It looked as if the murderer had
worn gloves or had rubbed the handle clean, and he noted
that either alternative postulated a cold-blooded criminal
and a calculated crime.</p>

<p>He continued his laborious search of the room, but
without finding anything else which interested him.
Finally, while his men were photographing the prints he
had discovered, he sat down in the leather-covered arm-chair
and considered what he had learned.</p>

<p>Certainly a good deal of the evidence pointed to
Gething. Gething knew the stones were there. According
to Duke, no one else could have got hold of the
key to the safe to make an impression. Moreover, his
body was found before the safe with the latter open. All
circumstantial evidence, of course, though cumulatively
strong.</p>

<p>However, whether or not Gething had contemplated
robbery, he had not carried it through. Some one else
had the diamonds. And here the obvious possibility recurred
to him which had been in his mind since he had
heard the Superintendent’s first statement. Suppose
Orchard was the man. Suppose Orchard, visiting the
office in the evening, arrived to find the safe open and
the old man stooping over it. Instantly he would be
assailed by a terrible temptation. The thing would seem
so easy, the way of escape so obvious, the reward so
sure. French, sitting back in the arm-chair, tried to picture
the scene. The old man bending over the safe, the
young one entering, unheard. His halt in surprise; the
sudden overwhelming impulse to possess the gems; his
stealthy advance; the seizing of the poker; the blow,
delivered perhaps with the intention of merely stunning
his victim. But he strikes too hard, and, horrified by
what he has done, yet sees that for his own safety he
must go through with the whole business. He recalls the
danger of finger prints, and wipes the handles of the poker
and of the drawer in the safe from which he has abstracted
the diamonds. With admirable foresight he
waits until the body grows cold, lest an examination of it
by the policeman he intends to call might disprove his
story. Then he rushes out in an agitated manner and
gives the alarm.</p>

<p>Though this theory met a number of the facts, French
was not overpleased with it. It did not explain what
Gething was doing at the safe, nor did it seem to fit in
with the personality of Orchard. All the same, though
his instruction to his man to shadow Orchard had been
given as an obvious precaution inevitable in the circumstances,
he was glad that he had not overlooked it.</p>

<p>Another point occurred to him as he sat thinking over
the affair in the leather-lined chair. If Orchard had
stolen the stones, he would never have risked having
them on his person when he gave the alarm. He would
certainly have hidden them, and French could not see
how he could have taken them out of the building to do
so. A thorough search of the offices seemed therefore
called for.</p>

<p>The Inspector was tired, but, late as it was, he spent
three solid hours conducting a meticulous examination
of the whole premises, only ceasing when he had satisfied
himself beyond possibility of doubt that no diamonds were
concealed thereon. Then, believing that he had exhausted
the possibilities of the scene of the crime, he felt himself
free to withdraw. Dawn was appearing in the eastern
sky as he drew the door after him and set off in the
direction of his home.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span><span epub:type="label">GATHERING THE THREADS</span></h2>

<p>The fact that he had been out all the previous night
was not, in Inspector French’s eyes, any reason why he
should be late at his work next day. At his usual time,
therefore, he reached New Scotland Yard, and promptly
engaged himself in the compilation of a preliminary report
on the Hatton Garden crime. This completed, he resumed
direct work on the case.</p>

<p>There were still several obvious inquiries to be made,
inquiries which might almost be called routine, in that
they followed necessarily from the nature of the crime.
The first of these was an interview with the other members
of the Duke &amp; Peabody staff.</p>

<p>An Oxford Street bus brought him to the end of Hatton
Garden, and soon he was once more mounting the staircase
to the scene of his last night’s investigation. He found
Mr. Duke standing in the outer office with Orchard and
the typist and office boy.</p>

<p>“I was just telling these young people they might go
home,” the principal explained. “I am closing the office
until after the funeral.”</p>

<p>“That will be appreciated by poor Mr. Gething’s family,
sir. I think it is very kind of you and very proper too.
But before this young lady and gentleman go I should
like to ask them a question or two.”</p>

<p>“Of course. Will you take them into my office? Go
in, Miss Prescott, and tell Inspector French anything he
wants to know.”</p>

<p>“I’m afraid you won’t be able to do quite so much as
that, Miss Prescott,” French smiled, continuing to chat
pleasantly in the hope of allaying the nervousness the girl
evidently felt.</p>

<p>But he learned nothing from her except that Mr. Duke
was a very nice gentleman of whom she was somewhat
in awe, and that Mr. Gething had always been very kind
to her and could be depended on to let her do whatever
she wanted. Neither about the clerk, Orchard, nor the
pupil, Harrington, was she communicative, and the office
boy, Billy Newton, she dismissed as one might a noxious
insect, a negligible, if necessary, evil. Mr. Gething had
been, as far as she could form a conclusion, in his usual
health and spirits on the previous day, but she thought
he had seemed worried and anxious for the past two or
three weeks. As to herself, she liked the office, and got
on well with her work, and was very sorry about poor Mr.
Gething. On the previous day she had gone straight
from the office, and had remained at home with her mother
during the entire evening. French, satisfied she had told
him all that she knew, took her finger prints and let
her go.</p>

<p>From Billy Newton, the precocious office boy, he
learned but one new fact. Newton, it seemed, had been
the last to leave the office on the previous evening, and
before Mr. Gething had gone he had instructed him to
make up the fire in the chief’s office, as he, Gething, was
coming back later to do some special work. The boy
had built up a good fire and had then left.</p>

<p>When French returned to the outer office, he found a
new arrival. A tall, good-looking young man was talking to
Mr. Duke, and the latter introduced him as Mr. Stanley
Harrington, the clerk-pupil who was qualifying for a partnership.
Harrington was apologising for being late, saying
that on his way to the office he had met an old schoolfellow
of whom he had completely lost sight, and who had asked
him to accompany him to King’s Cross, whence he was
taking the 9.50 a.m. train for the north. The young
man seemed somewhat ill at ease, and as French brought
him into the inner office and began to talk to him, his
nervousness became unmistakable. French was intrigued
by it. From his appearance, he imagined the man would
have, under ordinary circumstances, a frank, open face
and a pleasant, outspoken manner. But now his look
was strained and his bearing furtive. French, with his
vast experience of statement makers, could not but suspect
something more than the perturbation natural under
the circumstances, and as his examination progressed he
began to believe he was dealing with a normally straightforward
man who was now attempting to evade the truth.
But none of his suspicions showed in his manner, and he
was courtesy itself as he asked his questions.</p>

<p>It seemed that Harrington was the nephew of that Mr.
Vanderkemp who acted as traveller for the firm. Miss
Vanderkemp, the Dutchman’s sister, had married Stewart
Harrington, a prosperous Yorkshire stock-broker. Stanley
had been well educated, and had been a year at college
when a terrible blow fell on him. His father and mother,
travelling on the Continent, had both been killed in a
railway accident near Milan. It was then found that
his father, though making plenty of money, had been
living up to his income, and had made no provision for
those who were to come after him. Debts absorbed
nearly all the available money, and Stanley was left practically
penniless. It was then that his uncle, Jan
Vanderkemp, proved his affection. Out of his none too
large means he paid for the boy’s remaining years at
Cambridge, then using his influence with Mr. Duke to
give him a start in the office.</p>

<p>But shortly after he had entered on his new duties
an unexpected complication, at least for Mr. Duke, had
arisen. The principal’s daughter, Sylvia, visiting her
father in the office, had made the acquaintance of the
well-mannered youth, and before Mr. Duke realised what
was happening the two young people had fallen violently
in love, with the result that Miss Duke presently announced
to her horrified father that they were engaged.
In vain the poor man protested. Miss Duke was a young
lady who usually had her own way, and at last her father
was compelled to make a virtue of necessity. He met
the situation by giving the affair his blessing, and
promising to take Harrington into partnership if and
when he proved himself competent. In this Harrington
had succeeded, and the wedding was fixed for the
following month, the partnership commencing on the
same date.</p>

<p>French questioned the young fellow as to his movements
on the previous evening. It appeared that shortly
after reaching his rooms on the conclusion of his day’s
work in the office, he had received a telephone message
from Miss Duke saying that her father had just called
up to say he was detained in town for dinner, and, being
alone, she wished he would go out to Hampstead and
dine with her. Such an invitation from such a source was
in the nature of a command to be ecstatically obeyed,
and he had reached the Dukes’ house before seven o’clock.
But he had been somewhat disappointed as to his evening.
Miss Duke was going out after dinner; she intended
visiting a girls’ club in Whitechapel, run by a friend of
hers, a Miss Amy Lestrange. Harrington had accompanied
her to the East End, but she would not allow him
to go in with her to the club. He had, however, returned
later and taken her home, after which he had gone straight
to his rooms.</p>

<p>Skilful interrogation by French had obtained the above
information, and now he sat turning it over in his mind.
The story hung together, and, if true, there could be no
doubt of Harrington’s innocence. But French was
puzzled by the young man’s manner. He could have sworn
that there was <span class="it">something</span>. Either the tale was not true,
or it was not all true, or there was more which had not
been told. He determined that unless he got a strong
lead elsewhere, Mr. Harrington’s movements on the
previous night must be looked into and his statements
put to the test.</p>

<p>But there was no need to let the man know he was
suspected, and dismissing him with a few pleasant words,
French joined Mr. Duke in the outer office.</p>

<p>“Now, sir, if you are ready we shall go round to your
bank about the key.”</p>

<p>They soon obtained the required information. The
manager, who had read of the robbery in his morning
paper, was interested in the matter, and went into it
personally. Not only was the key there in its accustomed
place, but it had never been touched since Mr.
Duke left it in.</p>

<p>“A thousand pounds in notes was also stolen,” French
went on. “Is there any chance that you have the
numbers?”</p>

<p>“Your teller might remember the transaction,” Mr.
Duke broke in eagerly. “I personally cashed a cheque
for £1000 on the Tuesday, the day before the murder.
I got sixteen fifties and the balance in tens. I was hoping
to carry off a little deal in diamonds with a Portuguese
merchant whom I expected to call on me. I put the
money in my safe as I received it from you, and the
merchant not turning up, I did not look at it again.”</p>

<p>“We can but inquire,” the manager said doubtfully.
“It is probable we have a note of the fifties, but unlikely
in the case of the tens.”</p>

<p>But it chanced that the teller had taken the precaution
to record the numbers of all the notes. These were given
to French, who asked the manager to advise the Yard if
any were discovered.</p>

<p>“That’s satisfactory about the notes,” French commented
when Mr. Duke and he had reached the street.
“But you see what the key being there means? It means
that the copy was made from the key which you carry.
Some one must therefore have had it in his possession
long enough to take a mould of it in wax. This, of course,
is a very rapid operation; a couple of seconds would do
the whole thing. A skilful man would hold the wax in
the palm of his hand, ‘palmed’ as the conjurers call it, and
the key could be pressed into it in so natural a way that
no unsuspecting person would be any the wiser. Now
I want you to think again very carefully. If no one but
Mr. Gething handled the key, he <span class="it">must</span> have taken the
impression. There is no other way out. I would like
you, then, to be sure that no one else ever did get his
hands upon it, even for a moment. You see my point?”</p>

<p>“Of course I see it,” Mr. Duke returned a trifle testily,
“but, unanswerable as it seems, I don’t believe Gething
ever did anything of the kind. It would seem the likely
thing to you, Inspector, because you didn’t know the
man. But I’ve known him too long to doubt him. Some
one else must have got hold of the key, but I confess
I can’t imagine who.”</p>

<p>“Some one at night, while you were asleep?”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p>“I can only say, it is unlikely.”</p>

<p>“Well, consider the possibilities at all events. I must
go back to headquarters.”</p>

<p>“And I to the Gethings,” Mr. Duke returned. “I hear
the wife is very ill. The shock has completely broken
her down. You’ll let me know how things go on?”</p>

<p>“Certainly, sir. Immediately I have anything to report,
you shall hear it.”</p>

<p>The police station was not far away, and soon French
was bending over all that was mortal of Charles Gething.
He was not concerned with the actual remains, except to
take prints from the dead fingers, to compare with those
found in the office. But he went through the contents
of the pockets, among which he had hoped to gain some
clue as to the nature of the business which had brought
the dead man to the office. Unfortunately there was
nothing to give the slightest indication.</p>

<p>The inquest had been fixed for five o’clock that evening,
and French spent some time with the Superintendent
going over the evidence which was to be put forward
by the police. Of the verdict, there could, of course,
be no doubt.</p>

<p>Believing that by this time Mr. Duke would have left
the Gethings, French thought that he might himself call
there. The more he could learn about the old man the
better.</p>

<p>He hailed a taxi, and some fifteen minutes later reached
Monkton Street, a narrow and rather depressing side
street off the Fulham Road. The door of No. 37 was
opened by a brown-haired woman of some five-and-thirty,
with a pleasant and kindly, though somewhat worn expression.
French took off his hat.</p>

<p>“Miss Gething?” he inquired.</p>

<p>“No, I am Mrs. Gamage. But my sister is in, if you
wish to see her.” She spoke with a sort of plaintive softness
which French found rather attractive.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid I must trouble you both,” he answered with
his kindly smile, as he introduced himself and stated his
business.</p>

<p>Mrs. Gamage stepped back into the narrow passage.</p>

<p>“Come in,” she invited. “We are naturally anxious to
help you. Besides, the police have been very kind.
Nothing could have been kinder than that constable who
came round last night with the news. Indeed every one
has been more than good. Mr. Duke has just been round
himself to inquire. A time like this shows what people
are.”</p>

<p>“I was sorry to hear that Mrs. Gething is so unwell,”
French observed, and he followed his guide into the tiny
front parlour. He was surprised to find the house far
from comfortably furnished. Everything, indeed, bore
the stamp of an almost desperate attempt to preserve
decency and self-respect in the face of a grinding poverty.
The threadbare carpet was worn into holes and had been
neatly darned, and so had the upholstery of the two
rather upright easy chairs. The leg of the third chair
was broken and had been mended with nails and wire.
Everything was shabby, though spotlessly clean and
evidently looked after with the utmost care. Though
the day was bitter, no spark of fire burned in the grate.
Here, the Inspector thought, was certainly a matter to
be inquired into. If Gething was really as poor a man
as this furniture seemed to indicate, it undoubtedly would
have a bearing on the problem.</p>

<p>“My mother has been an invalid for many years,”
Mrs. Gamage answered, unconsciously supplying the explanation
French wanted. “She suffers from a diseased
hip bone and will never be well. My poor father spent
a small fortune on doctors and treatment for her, but
I don’t think any of them did her much good. Now this
news has broken her down altogether. She is practically
unconscious, and we fear the end at any time.”</p>

<p>“Allow me to express my sympathy,” French murmured,
and his voice seemed to convey quite genuine
sorrow. “What you tell me makes me doubly regret
having to force my unpleasant business on your notice.
But I cannot help myself.”</p>

<p>“Of course I understand.” Mrs. Gamage smiled
gently. “Ask what you want and I shall try to answer,
and when you have finished with me I’ll relieve Esther
with mother and send her down.”</p>

<p>But there was not a great deal that Mrs. Gamage could
tell. Since her marriage some four years previously she
had seen comparatively little of her father. That she
idolised him was obvious, but the cares of her own establishment
prevented her paying more than an occasional
visit to her old home. French therefore soon thanked
her for her help, and asked her to send her sister down
to him.</p>

<p>Esther Gething was evidently the younger of the two.
She was like Mrs. Gamage, but better looking. Indeed,
she was pretty in a mild, unobtrusive way. She had the
same brown eyes, but so steadfast and truthful that even
French felt satisfied that she was one to be trusted. Her
expression was equally kindly, but she gave the impression
of greater competence than her sister. He could
imagine how her parents leaned on her. A good woman,
he thought, using an adjective he did not often apply to
the sex, and the phrase, in its fullest significance, seemed
only just adequate.</p>

<p>Under the Inspector’s skilful lead she described the
somewhat humdrum existence which she and her parents
had led for some years past. Her mother’s illness seemed
to have been the ruling factor in their lives, everything
being subordinated to the sufferer’s welfare, and the
expenses in connection with it forming a heavy drain
on the family exchequer. From Mr. Duke’s records,
French had learned that the dead man’s salary had been
about £400 per annum, though quite recently it had been
increased to £450, following a visit the merchant had paid
to the house during a short illness of his head clerk. Mr.
Duke, Miss Gething said, had always acted as a
considerate employer.</p>

<p>Asked if her father had continued in his usual health
and spirits up to the end, she said no, that for some three
weeks past he had seemed depressed and worried. On
different occasions she had tried to find out the cause, but
he had not enlightened her except to say that he had
been having some trouble at the office. Once, however,
he dropped a phrase which set her thinking, though she
was unable to discover his meaning, and he had refused
to explain. He had asked her did she believe that a man
could ever be right in doing evil that good might come,
and when she had answered that she could not tell, he had
sighed and said, “Pray God you may never be called
on to decide.”</p>

<p>On the evening of his death it had been arranged that
he would sit with Mrs. Gething, in order to allow his
daughter to attend a social connected with the choir of
the church to which she belonged. But that evening he
came home more worried and upset than she had ever
seen him, and he had told her with many expressions of
regret that some unexpected work which had just come
in would require his presence that evening in the office,
and that unless she was able to get some one else to
look after her mother, she would have to give up her
social. He had been too nervous and ill at ease to make
a good meal, and had gone off about eight o’clock, saying
he did not know at what hour he would be back. That
was the last time she had seen him alive, and she had
heard nothing of him until the policeman had come with
his terrible news about half-past eleven.</p>

<p>Miss Gething was clearly at one with her sister in her
admiration and affection for her father, and French
recognised that she was as mystified as to his death as
he was himself. Seeing that he could learn no more, he
presently took his leave, with renewed expressions of
sympathy for her trouble.</p>

<p>When he reached the Yard he found that enlarged
photographs of the various finger prints he had discovered
were ready, and he sat down with some eagerness
to compare the impressions with those on his cards. He
spent some time counting and measuring lines and whorls,
and at last reached the following conclusions. All the
finger marks on the safe, both inside and out, belonged
either to Mr. Duke or to Mr. Gething, the majority being
the latter’s; the mark on the handle of the coal shovel
was Mr. Gething’s, and the remaining prints were those of
various members of the office staff. His hopes of help
from this source were therefore dashed.</p>

<p>With a sigh he looked at his watch. There would be
time before the inquest to make some inquiries as to the
truth of Orchard’s statement of his movements on the
previous evening. Half an hour later he had found the
man with whom the clerk had dined in Ilford, and he
fully substantiated the other’s story. Orchard was therefore
definitely eliminated from the inquiry.</p>

<p>The proceedings before the Coroner were practically
formal. Orchard, Mr. Duke, and Constable Alcorn told
their stories, and with very little further examination
were dismissed. French and the local superintendent
watched the case on behalf of the police, but did not
interfere, and the next of kin of the deceased were not
legally represented. After half an hour, the Coroner
summed up, and the jury without retiring brought in
the obvious verdict of wilful murder against some person
or persons unknown.</p>

<p>That evening, when French had dined and had settled
himself before the fire in his sitting-room with a pipe
between his lips and his notebook on the table at his
elbow, he set himself to take mental stock of his position
and get a clear grasp of his new problem.</p>

<p>In the first place, it was obvious that this Charles
Gething had been murdered for the sake of the diamonds
in Mr. Duke’s safe. It was certain from the position of
the wound that it could not have been accidental, nor
could it by any chance have been self-inflicted. Moreover,
a planned robbery was indicated by the cutting of
the duplicate key. But the stones were not on old
Gething’s body. It therefore followed that some one
else had taken them, though whether Gething had
abstracted them from the safe in the first instance was
not clear.</p>

<p>So far French had no trouble in marshalling his facts,
but when he attempted to go further he found himself
in difficulties.</p>

<p>There was first of all Gething’s poverty. Though his
salary was not unreasonable for his position, the drain
of his wife’s illness had kept him continually struggling
to make ends meet. French let his imagination dwell
on the wearing nature of such a struggle. To obtain
relief a man would risk a good deal. Then there was
his knowledge of the wealth which lay within his reach,
provided only that he made a spirited effort to obtain it.
Had the man fallen before the temptation?</p>

<p>That he had had something on his mind for two or
three weeks before his death was obvious, and it was
equally clear that this was something secret. When Mr.
Duke inquired as to the cause of the trouble, Gething
had mentioned family matters and his wife’s health, but
when his daughter had asked the same question he had
said it was due to business worries. The old man had
therefore carried his efforts at concealment to direct lying
to one or other.</p>

<p>It seemed evident also that this worry or trouble had
become intensified on the evening of his death. He had
told his daughter that special business required his
presence at the office. But Mr. Duke knew of no such
business, nor was any record of it obtainable.</p>

<p>But all these mysterious contradictions fell into line
and became comprehensible if some two or three weeks
back Gething had decided to rob the safe, and his special
agitation on the evening of his death was accounted for
if that were the date he had selected to make the attempt.</p>

<p>On the other hand, several considerations did not
support such a view. The first was the man’s known
character. He had worked for the firm for over twenty
years, and after all that experience of him Mr. Duke
absolutely refused to believe in his guilt. His daughters
also evidently had the warmest feelings towards him, and
from what French had seen of the latter he felt that
would have been impossible had Gething been a man
of bad or weak character. Such other evidence as French
had been able to obtain tended in the same direction.</p>

<p>Next, there was the open way in which Gething returned
to the office. Had he intended to burgle the safe,
would he not have kept the fact of his visit a secret?
Yet he told the office boy he was returning when instructing
him to keep up the fire in the inner office, and
he also mentioned it to his daughter when discussing
her proposed choir meeting.</p>

<p>Further, there was this matter of the fire in the private
office. If Gething was going to rob the safe, what was
the fire for? It was not merely that he had instructed
the office boy to keep it up. He had himself afterwards
put coal on, as was evidenced by his finger marks on the
handle of the shovel. The robbing of the safe would have
been a matter of minutes only. Did the episode of the
fire not look as if Gething really was employed at some
exceptional work, as he had stated to his daughter?</p>

<p>On the whole, French thought, the evidence for
Gething’s guilt was stronger than that against it, and
he began to form a tentative theory somewhat as follows:
That Gething, finding the conditions of his home life
onerous beyond further endurance, and realising the
unusually valuable deposit in the safe, had decided to
help himself, probably to a quite small portion, knowing
that the loss would fall, not on Mr. Duke, but on the
insurance company; that he had obtained an impression
of the key from which he had had a duplicate made; that
he had invented the business in the office as a safeguard
should he be accidentally found there during the evening;
that he <span class="it">had</span> been found there, probably accidentally, by
some one who, seeing the possibilities opening out in
front of him, had been swept off his feet by the sudden
temptation and had killed the old man and made off with
the swag.</p>

<p>This theory seemed to meet at least most of the facts.
French was not pleased with it, but it was the best he
could produce, and he decided to adopt it as a working
hypothesis. At the same time he kept an open mind,
recognising that the discovery of some fresh fact might
put a different complexion on the whole affair.</p>

<p>Next morning he put some obvious investigations in
train. By astute indirect inquiries, he satisfied himself
that neither Mr. Gething nor any other worker in the
Duke &amp; Peabody office had the technical skill to have cut
the key, and he put a man on to try and trace the professional
who had done it. He issued a description of
the stolen diamonds to the British and Dutch police, as
well as to certain dealers from whom he hoped to obtain
information of attempted sales. He saw that a general
advice was sent to the banks as to the missing notes,
and he searched, unsuccessfully, for any person who
might have known of the treasure and who was unable
satisfactorily to account for his movements on the night
of the murder.</p>

<p>But as the days slipped by without bringing any news,
French grew seriously uneasy and redoubled his efforts.
He suspected every one he could think of, including the
typist, the office boy, and even Mr. Duke himself, but
still without result. The typist proved she was at home
all the evening, Billy Newton was undoubtedly at a Boy
Scouts’ Rally, while guarded inquiries at the principal’s
club and home proved that his statement as to how he
had passed his evening was correct in every particular.
Stanley Harrington’s movements he had already investigated,
and though the young man’s alibi could not be
absolutely established he could find nothing to incriminate
him.</p>

<p>Baffled in every direction, French began to lose heart,
while his superiors asked more and more insistent and
unpleasant questions.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span><span epub:type="label">MISSING</span></h2>

<p>About ten o’clock on the morning of the tenth day
after the murder of Charles Gething, Inspector French
sat in his room at New Scotland Yard wondering for
the thousandth time if there was no clue in the affair
which he had overlooked, no line of research which he
had omitted to follow up.</p>

<p>He had seldom found himself up against so baffling
a problem. Though from the nature of the case, as he
told himself with exasperation, a solution should be
easily reached, yet he could find nothing to go on. The
clues he had obtained looked promising enough, but—they
led nowhere. None of the stolen notes had reached
the bank, nor had any of the diamonds come on the
market; no one in whom he was interested had become
suddenly rich, and all his possible suspects were able
more or less satisfactorily to account for their time on
the fatal evening.</p>

<p>French had just taken up his pen to write out a statement
of what he had done, in the hope of discovering
some omission, when his telephone rang. Absent-mindedly
he took up the receiver.</p>

<p>“I want to speak to Inspector French,” he heard in
a familiar voice. “Say that Mr. Duke of Duke &amp;
Peabody is on the ’phone.”</p>

<p>There was a suggestion of eagerness in the voice that
instantly roused the Inspector’s interest.</p>

<p>“Inspector French speaking,” he answered promptly.
“Good-morning, Mr. Duke. I hope you have some
news for me?”</p>

<p>“I have some news,” the distant voice returned, “but
I don’t know whether it bears on our quest. I have just
had a letter from Schoofs, you remember, the manager
of our Amsterdam branch, and from what he tells me
it looks as if Vanderkemp had disappeared.”</p>

<p>“Disappeared?” French echoed. “How? Since
when?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know exactly. I am having the files looked
up to try and settle dates. It appears that he has been
absent from the Amsterdam office for several days, and
Schoofs thought he was over here. But we’ve not seen
him. I don’t understand the matter. Perhaps if you’re
not too busy you could come round and I’ll show you
Schoofs’ letter.”</p>

<p>“I’ll come at once.”</p>

<p>Half an hour later French was mounting the stairs of
the Hatton Garden office. With a face wreathed in
smiles, Billy Newton ushered him into the private office.
Mr. Duke seemed nervous and a trifle excited as he
shook hands.</p>

<p>“The more I think over this affair, Inspector, the
less I like it,” he began immediately. “I do hope there
is nothing wrong. I will tell you all I know, but before
I show you Schoofs’ letter I had better explain how it
came to be written.”</p>

<p>He looked up interrogatively, then as French nodded,
continued:</p>

<p>“As I think I already mentioned, Vanderkemp is
my travelling agent. He attends sales and auctions in
all the countries of Europe. He has carried through
some very large deals for me, and I have every confidence
both in his business acumen and in his integrity. I told
you also that amongst others he had purchased and
brought to London the greater part of the missing stones.”</p>

<p>“You told me that, sir.”</p>

<p>“Of late years, when Vanderkemp is not on the road,
he has been working in the Amsterdam branch. Some
three or four days before poor Gething’s death he had
returned from a tour through southern Germany where
he had been buying jewels from some of the former
nobility who had fallen on evil days since the revolution.
Three days ago, on last Monday to be exact, I learnt
that a very famous collection of jewels was shortly to
be sold in Florence, and I wrote that evening to Schoofs
telling him to send Vanderkemp to Italy to inspect and
value the stones with a view to my purchasing some of
them. This is Schoofs’ reply which I received this morning.
You see what he says: ‘I note your instructions
re sending Vanderkemp to Florence, but he had not yet
returned here from London, where I presumed he was
staying with your knowledge and by your orders. When
he arrives I shall send him on at once.’ What do you
make of that, Inspector?”</p>

<p>“Vanderkemp did not come to London, then?”</p>

<p>“Not to my knowledge. He certainly did not come
here.”</p>

<p>“I should like to know why Mr. Schoofs thought he
had, and also the date he was supposed to start.”</p>

<p>“We can learn that by wiring to Schoofs.”</p>

<p>Inspector French remained silent for a few moments.
It seemed to him now that he had neglected this Dutch
office. It was at least another line of inquiry, and one
which might easily bear fruitful results.</p>

<p>The staff there, Mr. Duke had stated, consisted of
four persons, the manager, a typist, and an office boy.
There was also at times this traveller, Vanderkemp, the
same Vanderkemp who was uncle to Stanley Harrington.
It was more than likely that these persons knew of
the collection of diamonds. The manager would certainly
be in Mr. Duke’s confidence on the matter. Vanderkemp
had actually purchased and brought to London a
large number of the stones, which he had seen put into
the safe, though, of course, it did not follow that he
knew that they had been retained there. Besides, in the
same way as in the London office, leakage of the information
to outside acquaintances might easily occur.
Inquiries in Amsterdam seemed to French to be indicated.</p>

<p>“I think I shouldn’t wire,” he said at last. “There is
no use in starting scares unless we’re sure something is
wrong. Probably the thing is capable of the most ordinary
explanation. But I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll
slip across to Amsterdam and make a few inquiries. If
anything is wrong I’ll get to know.”</p>

<p>“Good. I’d be very pleased if you did that. I’ll write
Schoofs and tell him to help you in every way that he
can.”</p>

<p>French shook his head.</p>

<p>“I shouldn’t do that either, if you don’t mind,” he declared.
“I’ll just go over and have a look round. There
is no need to mention it to any one.”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke demurred, pointing out that a note from him
would enlist Mr. Schoof’s help. But French maintained
his ground, and the merchant agreed to carry out his
wishes.</p>

<p>French crossed by the night service from Harwich,
and at half-past eight o’clock next day emerged from the
Central Station into the delightful, old world capital.
Though bent on sordid enough business, he could not
but feel the quaint charm of the city as he drove to the
Bible Hotel in the Damrak, and again as, after breakfast,
he sauntered out to reconnoitre.</p>

<p>Messrs. Duke &amp; Peabody’s office was close by in the
Singelgracht, a semi-business street with a tree-lined
canal down its centre, and crouching at one corner, a
heavily-gabled church with a queer little wooden tower
not unlike a monstrous candle extinguisher. French had
opposed Mr. Duke’s offer to write to the manager introducing
him, as he did not wish any of the Amsterdam
staff to be aware beforehand of his visit. He had on
many occasions obtained a vital hint from the start or
sudden look of apprehension which an unexpected
question had produced, and he was anxious not to neglect
the possibility of a similar suggestion in this case. He
therefore pushed open the swing door, and without giving
a name, asked for the manager.</p>

<p>Mr. Schoofs was a dapper little man with a pompous
manner and an evident sense of his own value. He spoke
excellent English, and greeted his caller politely as he
motioned him to a chair. French lost no time in coming
to the point.</p>

<p>“I have called, sir,” he began in a harsh tone, not at
all in accord with his usual “Soapy Joe” character, while
he transfixed the other with a cold and inimical stare,
“with reference to the murder of Mr. Gething. I am
Inspector French of the Criminal Investigation Department
of New Scotland Yard.”</p>

<p>But his little plot did not come off. Mr. Schoofs
merely raised his eyebrows, and with a slight shrug of
his shoulders contrived to produce a subtle suggestion
that he was surprised not with the matter, but with
the manner, of his visitor’s announcement.</p>

<p>“Ah yes!” he murmured easily. “A sad business
truly! And I understand there is no trace of the murderer
and thief? It must be disquieting to Londoners
to have deeds of violence committed with such impunity
in their great city.”</p>

<p>French, realising that he had lost the first move,
changed his tone.</p>

<p>“It is true, sir, that we have as yet made no arrest,
but we are not without hope of doing so shortly. It
was to gain some further information that I came over
to see you.”</p>

<p>“I am quite at your disposal.”</p>

<p>“I needn’t ask you if you can give me any directly
helpful news, because in that case you would have already
volunteered it. But it may be that you can throw light
upon some side issue, of which you may not have
realised the importance.”</p>

<p>“Such as?”</p>

<p>“Such, for example, as the names of persons who were
aware of the existence of the diamonds in Mr. Duke’s
safe. That is one of many lines.”</p>

<p>“Yes? And others?”</p>

<p>“Suppose we take that one first. Can you, as a matter
of fact, tell me if the matter was known of over here?”</p>

<p>“I knew of it, if that is what you mean,” Mr. Schoofs
answered in a slightly dry tone. “Mr. Duke told me of
his proposed deal, and asked me to look out for stones for
him. Mr. Vanderkemp also knew of it, as he bought
a lot of the stones and took them to London. But I do
not think any one else knew.”</p>

<p>“What about your clerk and office boy?”</p>

<p>Mr. Schoofs shook his head.</p>

<p>“It is impossible that either could have heard of it.”</p>

<p>French, though he had begun inauspiciously, continued
the interrogation with his usual suavity. He asked
several other questions, but without either learning anything
of interest, or surprising Schoofs into showing
embarrassment or suspicious symptoms. Then he turned
to the real object of his visit.</p>

<p>“Now about your traveller, Mr. Schoofs. What kind
of man is Mr. Vanderkemp?”</p>

<p>Under the genial and deferent manner which French
was now exhibiting, Schoofs had thawed, and he really
seemed anxious to give all the help he could. Vanderkemp,
it appeared, was a considerable asset to the firm,
though owing to his age—he was just over sixty—he was
not able to do so much as formerly. Personally he was
not very attractive; he drank a little too much, he
gambled, and there were discreditable though unsubstantiated
tales of his private life. Moreover, he was of
morose temper and somewhat short manners, except
when actually negotiating a deal, when he could be suave
and polished enough. But he had been known to perform
kind actions, for instance, he had been exceedingly
good to his nephew Harrington. Neither Schoofs nor
any one else in the concern particularly liked him, but he
had one invaluable gift, a profound knowledge of precious
stones and an accuracy in valuing them which was almost
uncanny. He had done well for the firm, and Mr. Duke
was glad to overlook his shortcomings in order to retain
his services.</p>

<p>“I should like to have a chat with him. Is he in at
present?”</p>

<p>“No, he went to London nearly a fortnight ago. He
has not returned yet. But I’m expecting him every day,
as I have instructions from Mr. Duke to send him to
Florence.”</p>

<p>French looked interested.</p>

<p>“He went to London?” he repeated. “But I can assure
you he never arrived there, or at least never reached Mr.
Duke’s office. I have asked Mr. Duke on several occasions
about his staff, and he distinctly told me that he
had not seen this Mr. Vanderkemp since two or three
weeks before the murder.”</p>

<p>“But that’s most extraordinary,” Schoofs exclaimed.
“He certainly left here to go to London on—what day
was it?—it was the very day poor Gething was murdered.
He left by the day service via Rotterdam and Queenborough.
At least, he was to do so, for I only saw him
on the previous evening.”</p>

<p>“Well, he never arrived. Was it on business he was
going?”</p>

<p>“Yes, Mr. Duke wrote for him.”</p>

<p>“Mr. Duke wrote for him?” French echoed, at last
genuinely surprised. “What? To cross that day?”</p>

<p>“To see him in the office on the following morning.
I can show you the letter.” He touched a bell and gave
the necessary instructions. “There it is,” he continued,
handing over the paper which the clerk brought in.</p>

<p>It was an octavo sheet of memorandum paper with the
firm’s name printed on the top, and bore the following
typewritten letter:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;">“20th November.</p>

<p>“<span class="sc">H. A. Schoofs, Esq.</span></p>

<p>“I should be obliged if you would please ask Mr.
Vanderkemp to come over and see me here at 10.00
a.m. on Wednesday, 26h inst., as I wish him to
undertake negotiations for a fresh purchase. He may
have to go to Stockholm at short notice.”</p>

</div>

<p>The note was signed “R. A. Duke,” with the attendant
flourish with which French had grown familiar.</p>

<p>He sat staring at the sheet of paper, trying to fit this
new discovery into the scheme of things. But it seemed
to him an insoluble puzzle. Was Mr. Duke not really
the innocent, kindly old gentleman he had fancied, but
rather a member, if not the author, of some deep-seated
conspiracy? If he had written this note, why had he not
mentioned the fact when Vanderkemp was being discussed?
Why had he shown surprise when he received
Schoofs’ letter saying that the traveller had crossed to
London? What was at the bottom of the whole affair?</p>

<p>An idea struck him, and he examined the letter more
closely.</p>

<p>“Are you sure this is really Mr. Duke’s signature?”
he asked slowly.</p>

<p>Mr. Schoofs looked at him curiously.</p>

<p>“Why, yes,” he answered. “At least, it never occurred
to me to doubt it.”</p>

<p>“You might let me see some of his other letters.”</p>

<p>In a few seconds half a dozen were produced, and
French began whistling below his breath as he sat comparing
the signatures, using a lens which he took from
his pocket. After he had examined each systematically,
he laid them down on the table and sat back in his chair.</p>

<p>“That was stupid of me,” he announced. “I should
have learnt all I wanted without asking for these other
letters. That signature is forged. See here, look at it
for yourself.”</p>

<p>He passed the lens to Schoofs, who in his turn examined
the name.</p>

<p>“You see, the lines of that writing are not smooth;
they are a mass of tiny shakes and quivers. That means
that they have not been written quickly and boldly;
they have been slowly drawn or traced over pencil.
Compare one of these other notes and you will see that
while at a distance the signatures look identical, in
reality they are quite different. No, Mr. Duke never
wrote that. I am afraid Mr. Vanderkemp has been the
victim of some trick.”</p>

<p>Schoofs was visibly excited. He hung on the other’s
words and nodded emphatically at his conclusions. Then
he swore comprehensively in Dutch. “Good heavens, Inspector!”
he cried. “You see the significance of all
that?”</p>

<p>French glanced at him keenly.</p>

<p>“In what way?” he demanded.</p>

<p>“Why, here we have a murder and a robbery, and then
we have this, occurring at the very same time. . . .
Well, does it not look suggestive?”</p>

<p>“You mean the two things are connected?”</p>

<p>“Well, what do you think?” Mr. Schoofs replied with
some impatience.</p>

<p>“It certainly does look like it,” French admitted
slowly. Already his active brain was building up a theory,
but he wanted to get the other’s views. “You are suggesting,
I take it, that Vanderkemp may have been
concerned in the crime?”</p>

<p>Schoofs shook his head decidedly.</p>

<p>“I am suggesting nothing of the kind,” he retorted.
“That’s not my job. The thing merely struck me as
peculiar.”</p>

<p>“No, no,” French answered smoothly, “I have not
expressed myself clearly. Neither of us is making any
accusation. We are simply consulting together in a
private, and, I hope, a friendly way, each anxious only
to find out the truth. Any suggestion may be helpful.
If I make the suggestion that Mr. Vanderkemp is the
guilty man in order to enable us to discuss the possibility,
it does not follow that either of us believes it to be true,
still less that I should act on it.”</p>

<p>“I am aware of that, but I don’t make any such
suggestion.”</p>

<p>“Then I do,” French declared, “simply as a basis for
discussion. Let us suppose then, purely for argument’s
sake, that Mr. Vanderkemp decides to make some of
the firm’s wealth his own. He is present when the stones
are being put into the safe, and in some way when Mr.
Duke’s back is turned, he takes an impression of the
key. He crosses to London, either finds Gething in the
office or is interrupted by him, murders the old man,
takes the diamonds, and clears out. What do you think
of that?”</p>

<p>“What about the letter?”</p>

<p>“Well, that surely fits in? Mr. Vanderkemp must
leave this office in some way which won’t arouse your
suspicion or cause you to ask questions of the London
office. What better way than by forging the letter?”</p>

<p>Mr. Schoofs swore for the second time. “If he has
done that,” he cried hotly, “let him hang! I’ll do everything
I can, Inspector, to help you to find out, and that
not only on general grounds, but for old Gething’s sake,
for whom I had a sincere regard.”</p>

<p>“I thought you would feel that way, sir. Now to
return to details. I suppose you haven’t the envelope
that letter came in?”</p>

<p>“Never saw it,” Mr. Schoofs replied. “The clerk who
opened it would destroy it.”</p>

<p>“Better have the clerk in, and we’ll ask the question.”</p>

<p>Mr. Schoofs made a sudden gesture.</p>

<p>“By Jove!” he cried. “It was Vanderkemp himself.
He acts as head clerk when he is here.”</p>

<p>“Then we don’t get any evidence there. Either the
letter came through the post, in which case he destroyed
the envelope in the usual way, or else he brought the
letter to the office and slipped it in among the others.”</p>

<p>French picked up the letter again. Experience had
taught him that typescript could be extremely characteristic,
and he wondered if this in question could be
made to yield up any of its secrets.</p>

<p>It certainly had peculiarities. The lens revealed a
dent in the curve of the n, where the type had evidently
struck something hard, and the tail of the g was slightly
defective.</p>

<p>French next examined the genuine letters, and was
interested to find their type showed the same irregularities.
It was therefore certain that the forged letter
had been typed in the London office.</p>

<p>He sat thinking deeply, unconsciously whistling his
little tune through his closed teeth. There was another
peculiarity about the forged note. The letters were a
trifle indented, showing that the typewriter keys had
been struck with rather more than the usual force. He
turned the sheet over, and he saw that so much was this
the case that the stops were punched almost through.
Picking up the genuine letters, he looked for the same
peculiarity, but the touch in these cases was much lighter
and even the full stop barely showed through. This
seemed to justify a further deduction—that the writer
of the forged note was unskilled, probably an amateur,
while that of the others was an expert. French felt
he could safely assume that the forged note had been
typed by some unauthorised person, using the machine
in the London office.</p>

<p>But, so far as he could see, these deductions threw
no light on the guilt or innocence of Vanderkemp. The
letter might have come from some other person in London,
or Vanderkemp might have typed it himself during
one of his visits to the metropolis. More data was wanted
before a conclusion could be reached.</p>

<p>Though from what he had seen of Schoofs, the Inspector
thought it unlikely that he was mixed up in what
he was beginning to believe was a far-reaching conspiracy,
he did not mention his discoveries to him, but continued
trying to pump him for further information about the
missing traveller. Vanderkemp, it seemed, was a tall
man, or would have been if he held himself erect, but
he had stooped shoulders and a slouching way of walking
which detracted from his height. He was inclining to
stoutness, and had dark hair and a sallow complexion.
His chin was cleanshaven, but he wore a heavy dark
moustache. Glasses covered his short-sighted eyes.</p>

<p>French obtained some samples of his handwriting, but
no photograph of him was available. In fact, Mr. Schoofs
did not seem able to supply any further information,
nor did an interrogation of the typist and office boy, both
of whom spoke a little English, produce any better
results.</p>

<p>“Where did Mr. Vanderkemp live?” French asked,
when he thought he had exhausted the resources of the
office.</p>

<p>It appeared that the traveller was unmarried, and Mr.
Schoofs did not know if he had any living relatives other
than Harrington. He boarded with Mevrouw Bondix,
in the Kinkerstraat, and thither the two men betook
themselves, French begging the other’s company in case
he should be needed as interpreter. Mevrouw Bondix
was a garrulous little old lady who had but little English,
and upon whom Schoofs’ questions acted as a push
button does on an electric bell. She overwhelmed them
with a flood of conversation of which French could understand
not one word, and from which even the manager
was hard put to it to extract the meaning. But the gist
of the matter was that Vanderkemp had left her house
at half-past eight on the night before the murder, with
the expressed intention of taking the 9.00 train for
London. Since then she had neither seen him nor heard
from him.</p>

<p>“But,” French exclaimed, “I thought you told me he
had crossed by the daylight service on the day of the
murder?”</p>

<p>“He said he would,” Schoofs answered with a somewhat
puzzled air. “He said so most distinctly. I
remember it particularly because he pointed out that
Mr. Duke would probably ask him, after the interview,
to start by the afternoon Continental train on his new
journey, and he preferred to travel during the previous
day so as to insure a good night’s sleep in London. He
said that in answer to a suggestion of mine that he
would be in time enough if he went over on the night
before his interview.”</p>

<p>“What time do these trains get in to London?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know, but we can find out at the office.”</p>

<p>“I’d like to go to the Central Station next, if you don’t
mind coming along,” French declared, “so we could look
them up there. But before I go I want you to tell me
if Mr. Vanderkemp figures in any of these?” He pointed
to a number of photographic groups which adorned the
chimneypiece and walls.</p>

<p>It happened that the missing traveller appeared in one
of the groups, and both Mr. Schoofs and Mevrouw
Bondix bore testimony to the excellence of the portrait.</p>

<p>“Then I’ll take it,” French announced, as he slipped
the card into his pocket.</p>

<p>The two men next went to the Central Station and
looked up the trains. They found that the day service
did not reach Victoria until 10.05 p.m. The significance
of this was not lost upon French. Orchard stated he
had reached the office in Hatton Garden at 10.15, and
that it could not have been later was established by the
evidence of Constable Alcorn. The body at that time
was cold, so that the crime must have taken place some
considerable time earlier. A man, therefore, who had
crossed by the daylight service from Amsterdam could
not possibly have had time to commit the murder. Had
Vanderkemp lied deliberately to Schoofs when he told
him he was using that daylight service? If so, was it
in order to establish an alibi? Had he a secret appointment
with Gething for an earlier hour on the fatal
evening, and had he crossed the night before with the
object of keeping it? French felt these were questions
which required satisfactory answers, and he made a
mental note not to rest until he had found them.</p>

<p>With his new friend’s aid he began to interrogate the
staff of the Central Station, in the hope of ascertaining
whether or not the missing man had actually left by the
train in question. But of this he could learn nothing.
None of the employees appeared to know Vanderkemp’s
appearance, nor after that lapse of time could any one
recall having seen a passenger of his description.</p>

<p>That day and the next French spent in the charming
old city, trying to learn what he could of the missing
man’s life and habits. He came across a number of
persons who were acquainted with the traveller, but
no one with whom he had been really intimate. None of
these people could give him much information, nor did
any of them seem to care whether or no Vanderkemp
should ever be heard of again. From all he heard,
French concluded that Vanderkemp’s character was such
as might be expected in the guilty man, but there was
but little evidence of motive, and none at all of guilt.</p>

<p>He returned to London by the night service, and
having ascertained that the steamer he crossed by was
the same that had run on the date of Vanderkemp’s
assumed journey, he made exhaustive inquiries as to
the latter from the staff on board, unfortunately with
negative results.</p>

<p>Next day his efforts were equally fruitless. He spent
most of it in discussing the situation with Mr. Duke,
and trying to make a list of the persons who could have
had access to the typewriter, but nowhere could he get
a gleam of light. The authorship of the letter remained
as inscrutable a mystery as the murder of Gething.</p>

<p>Having circulated a description of Vanderkemp containing
a copy of the photograph, French went home that
night a worried and disconsolate man. But though he
did not know it, further news was even at the moment
on the way to him.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span><span epub:type="label">FRENCH TAKES A JOURNEY</span></h2>

<p>Inspector French had not quite finished supper that
evening when his telephone bell rang. He was wanted
back at the Yard immediately. Some information about
the case had come in.</p>

<p>Cheerful and hopeful, he set off and in a few minutes
was once more seated in his office. There a note was
awaiting him, which had been delivered by hand a short
time previously. He eagerly tore it open, and read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:6em;">“City of London Banking Co.,</p>
<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:2em;">“Reading Branch, 11th December.</p>

<p>“<span class="sc">Sir</span>,—With reference to your inquiry re certain
bank-notes, I beg to inform you that Bank of England
ten-pound notes numbers A/V 173258 W and N/L
386427 P were paid into this Branch just before closing
time to-day. Our teller fortunately noticed the numbers
almost immediately, and he thinks, though is not
positive, they were paid in by a Colonel FitzGeorge of
this town, whose address is Oaklands, Windsor Road.</p>

<p>“I am sending this note by one of our clerks, who
is going to town this afternoon.</p>

<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:8em;">“Yours faithfully,</p>
<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:2em;">“<span class="sc">Herbert Hinckston</span>,</p>
<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:0em;">“<span class="it">Manager</span>.”</p>

</div>

<p>French received this information with a feeling of
delight which speedily changed to misgiving. At first
sight what could be more valuable to his quest than
the discovery of some of the stolen notes? And yet
when he considered that these had been passed in by
an army man residing in Reading, the doubt immediately
insinuated itself that here also might be a promising
clue which would lead to nothing. Obviously, if this
Colonel FitzGeorge had indeed paid in the notes, it did
not at all follow that he was the thief, or even that he
had obtained them from the thief. Before they reached
the bank in Reading they might have passed through
a dozen hands.</p>

<p>But, be this as it might, French’s procedure was at
least clear. A visit to Colonel FitzGeorge was undoubtedly
his next step.</p>

<p>He picked up a Bradshaw. Yes, there would be time
to go that night. A train left Paddington at 8.10 which
would bring him to Reading before 9.00.</p>

<p>He ran down through the great building, and hailing
a taxi, was driven to the terminus. He caught the train
with a minute to spare, and shortly before nine he was
in conversation with a taxi driver outside the Great
Western Station in Reading.</p>

<p>“Yessir,” the man assured him, “I know the ’ouse. Ten
minutes drive out along the Windsor Road.”</p>

<p>The night was dark, and French could not take minute
stock of his surroundings, but he presently learnt from
the sounds of his car’s wheels that Oaklands was reached
from the road by an appreciable drive coated with fine
gravel, and the bulk of the house, looming large above
him as he stood before the porch, indicated an owner
well endowed with this world’s goods. The impression
was confirmed when in answer to his inquiry a venerable
butler conducted him through a hall of imposing dimensions
to a luxurious sitting-room. There the man left
him, returning in a few minutes to say his master was
in the library and would see Mr. French.</p>

<p>Colonel FitzGeorge was a tall, white-haired man, with
an erect carriage and excessively courteous manners.
He bowed as French entered, and indicated a deep
leather-lined arm-chair drawn up opposite his own before
the blazing fire of pine logs.</p>

<p>“A chilly evening, Inspector,” he said pleasantly.
“Won’t you sit down?”</p>

<p>French thanked him, and after apologising for the
hour of his call, went on:</p>

<p>“My visit, sir, is in connection with certain bank-notes
which I am trying to trace. Some time ago there
was a robbery in the City in which a number of Bank
of England notes were stolen. The owner fortunately
was able to find out their numbers from his bank. When
the matter was reported to us, we naturally asked the
banks generally to keep a lookout for them. Nothing
was heard of them until to-day, but this afternoon, just
before closing time, two of them were paid into the
Reading Branch of the City of London Bank. The teller,
though not certain, believed that you had paid them in.
You can see, therefore, the object of my call. It is to
ask you if you can possibly help me to trace the thief
by telling me where you received the notes. There were
two, both for ten pounds, and the numbers were A/V
173258 W and N/L 386427 P.”</p>

<p>Colonel FitzGeorge looked interested.</p>

<p>“I certainly called at the bank this afternoon and
lodged some money,” he answered. “It was mostly in
the form of dividend warrants, but there were a few
notes. Now where did I get those? I should be able
to tell you off-hand, but I’m not at all sure that I can.
Let me think, please.”</p>

<p>For some moments silence reigned in the luxuriously-furnished
room. French, always suspicious, surreptitiously
watched his new acquaintance, but he had to
admit that he could discern none of the customary signs
of guilt. But he reminded himself that you never knew,
and determined that unless he was completely satisfied
by the coming reply, he would make an investigation into
Colonel FitzGeorge’s movements on the night of the
murder.</p>

<p>“I <span class="it">believe</span>,” said the Colonel suddenly, “I know where
I got those notes. I am not by any means certain, but
I think I can tell you. Unless I am very much mistaken,
it was from the manager of the Hotel Beau-Sejour in
Chamonix.”</p>

<p>“Chamonix?” French repeated in surprise. This was
by no means what he had expected to hear.</p>

<p>“Yes. I have been for the last six weeks in Switzerland
and Savoy, and two days ago, on last Tuesday
afternoon, to be exact, I left Chamonix. I caught the
night train from Geneva, was in Paris next morning, and
reached Charing Cross yesterday, Wednesday, afternoon.
To-day I went through my correspondence, and after
lunch took in my dividends and some spare cash to lodge
in the bank.”</p>

<p>“And the two ten-pound notes, sir?”</p>

<p>“The two ten-pound notes, as I say, I believe I received
at the Chamonix hotel. I found I had to return
home sooner than I had intended, and as I was leaving
the country I wanted to change back all but a small
amount of my foreign money. It was convenient to do
it at the hotel, and besides, you can’t always be sure of
getting enough change at Calais or on the boat. I asked
the manager of the Beau-Sejour to give me English money
for my francs, and he did so at once.”</p>

<p>“Why do you think these particular notes were
handed over by him?”</p>

<p>“He paid me in ten-pound notes only. He gave me
five of them—I changed fifty pounds’ worth of francs
altogether. It is true that I had some other English
notes, and there were some at home here, but so far as
I can remember, there were no tens among them—only
fives and Treasury notes.”</p>

<p>With this, French had to be content. Though he
asked many other questions he could learn nothing
further to help him. But on the pretext that the notes
might have been received at some other place, he obtained
a note of the Colonel’s itinerary while abroad.
According to this, it appeared that on the night of Charles
Gething’s murder, the traveller had slept in the Bellevue
Hotel at Kandersteg, prior to walking over the Gemmi
Pass on the following day. This French noted as a point
capable of being checked, should checking become
desirable.</p>

<p>He had kept his taxi, and after a little trouble he
found the address of the teller of the City of London
Bank, and paid him a late call. But from him he learnt
nothing new, except that the man seemed much more
certain that Colonel FitzGeorge had really handed in
the notes than the letter of his manager had led French
to believe. He admitted that he was relying on memory
alone, but said he had checked over his money just before
the Colonel’s visit, and he was positive the stolen notes
were not then there.</p>

<p>Inspector French was in a distinctly pessimistic frame
of mind as he sat in the corner of a smoking compartment
of the last train from Reading to town, and next
morning as he put the facts he had learnt before his
chief, he was but slightly more sanguine. Two of the
stolen notes had been discovered; that was really all
that could be stated with certainty. That Colonel
FitzGeorge had paid them into the bank was by no
means sure, still less that he really had received them
from a hotel manager in Chamonix. But even assuming
the Colonel’s recollection was accurate, it did not greatly
help. It was unlikely that the manager could state from
whom he in his turn had received those particular notes.
Indeed, even were he able to do so, and by some miracle
were French able to trace the giver, in all probability the
latter also would turn out to be innocent, and the goal
would be no nearer. The whole episode seemed to
French, as he expressed it to his chief, a wash-out.</p>

<p>But the great man took a different view. He replied
in the same words which French himself had used in
another connection.</p>

<p>“You never know,” he declared. “You miss this
chance and you’re down and out, so far as I can see.
But if you go over and see the manager you don’t know
what you mayn’t light on. If the thief stayed in that
hotel, he must have registered. You might get something
from that. Mind you, I agree that it’s a thin
chance, but a thin chance is better than none.”</p>

<p>“Then you think, sir, I ought to go to Chamonix?”</p>

<p>“Yes. It won’t cost a great deal, and you may get
something. Have you ever been there?”</p>

<p>“No, sir.”</p>

<p>“Well, you’ll enjoy it. I’d give a good deal to take
your place.”</p>

<p>“Oh, I shall enjoy it right enough, sir. But I’m not
hopeful of the result.”</p>

<p>The chief gave a dry but kindly smile.</p>

<p>“French, you’re not usually such a confounded
pessimist. Get along, and hope for the best.”</p>

<p>French had looked up the positions of Chamonix and
Kandersteg on the previous evening, and he had seen
that by taking a comparatively slight detour it would
be possible for him to visit the latter place on his way
to the former. He decided, therefore, that he might as
well set his mind at rest on the question of Colonel
FitzGeorge’s whereabouts on the night of the murder.
He did not suspect the man, but it would be better to
be sure.</p>

<p>But to do this, some further information was necessary.
He must, if possible, obtain a photograph of the
Colonel and a sample of his signature. It was not yet
ten o’clock, and he thought it would be possible to get
these and catch the afternoon train for the Continent.</p>

<p>By half-past eleven he was back in Reading. There
he handed a taxi man a note which he had written
during the journey, telling him to take it to Colonel
FitzGeorge’s, and to bring the answer back to him at
the station. The note, he admitted to himself, was
clumsy, but it was the best he could think of at the
moment. In it he regretted troubling his new acquaintance
so soon again, but he had most stupidly lost the
memorandum he had taken of the name of the hotel in
Chamonix at which the stolen notes were obtained, and
would Colonel FitzGeorge be so kind as to let him have
it again.</p>

<p>The note despatched, he turned to the second portion
of his business. With his usual detailed observation, he
had seen on the chimneypiece of the Colonel’s library a
photograph of the gentleman himself, and noted that it
was the work of Messrs. Gale &amp; Hardwood, of Reading.
An inquiry from the taxi driver had given him the address
of the studio, and he now set off there in the hope
of obtaining a copy.</p>

<p>In this he was unexpectedly successful. Messrs. Gale
&amp; Hardwood had a print in one of their showcases, which
in five minutes was transferred to the Inspector’s pocket,
and he was back at the station before his taxi man turned
up with the reply to his note.</p>

<p>In this also his luck was in. The man had found
Colonel FitzGeorge just about to start for Reading. He
handed French back his own note, across which was
written in a firm, masculine hand: “Beau-Sejour. B. L.
FitzGeorge.”</p>

<p>Stowing the photograph and the note away in his
pocketbook, French returned to town, and the same afternoon
at 2.00 he left Victoria on his second trip to the
Continent. He had been to France and Germany on a
previous occasion, but never to Switzerland, and he was
looking forward to getting a glimpse of some of the
wonderful mountain scenery of that country.</p>

<p>He disembarked at Calais, passed through the customs,
and took his seat in the Lötschberg-Simplon express with
true British disapproval of all that he saw. But later
the excellent dinner served while the train ran through
the pleasant country between Abbeville and Amiens
brought him to a more acquiescent mood, and over a good
cigar and a cup of such coffee as he had seldom before
tasted, he complacently watched day fade into night.
About half-past six o’clock next morning he followed
the example of his countless British predecessors, and
climbed down on the long platform at Bale to drink his
morning coffee. Then again on through scenery of
growing interest, past Bern to Spiez, where he found the
Lake of Thun really had the incredible colouring he had
so often scoffed at, but secretly admired, in the Swiss
posters he had seen in London. Finally, after crawling
round the loops on the side of the Frütigen valley, the
train stopped at Kandesteg, and bag in hand he descended
to the platform. A porter with the name “Bellevue”
on his cap caught his eye, and a short drive brought him
to the hotel.</p>

<p>After déjeuner he sought the manager, a suave functionary
whose English accent was a trifle suggestive of
New York. No, it was not the matter of his room.
French regretted that on that occasion he could not
remain overnight in the hotel—he hoped he would soon
be free to return and to do so—but for the moment he
was on business. He would take the manager into his
confidence. He was a detective . . . in short, could the
manager help him? That was the gentleman’s
photograph.</p>

<p>“But, of course! Yes,” the manager answered
promptly on glancing at the portrait. “It is the Colonel
FitzGeorge, the English gentleman from London. He
was here, let me see, two—three weeks ago. I will
look up the register.”</p>

<p>Further inquiries elicited the information that the
Colonel had stayed for three nights at the hotel, and
had left early on the day after the murder with the
intention of walking to Leukerbad over the Gemmi Pass.</p>

<p>His business at Kandersteg completed, French conscientiously
looked up the next train to Chamonix. But
he found he could not get through that day, and being
tired from his journey, he decided to remain where he
was until the next morning. He spent the afternoon lost
in admiration of the charming valley, and that night slept
to the murmur of a mountain stream which flowed beneath
his window.</p>

<p>Next morning he took the southbound train, and having
passed through the nine miles of the Loetschberg tunnel,
he gazed with veritable awe into the dreary waste of the
Loetschenthal and the great gulf of the Rhone Valley,
marvelling as the train raced along the side of the
stupendous cliff. He changed at Brigue, passed down the
Rhone Valley, and changing again at Martigny, spent
another four hours on what a fellow-traveller with a nasal
drawl described as “the most elegant ride he’d struck,”
through Vallorcine and Argentiere to Chamonix. On
crossing the divide, the panorama which suddenly burst
on his view of the vast mass of the Mont Blanc massif
hanging in the sky above the valley, literally took away
his breath, and he swore that his next holidays would
certainly be spent in the overwhelming scenery of these
tremendous mountains.</p>

<p>At Chamonix history tended to repeat itself. He
reached his hotel, dined excellently, and then sought the
manager. M. Marcel, like his <span class="it">confrère</span> in Kandersteg,
was courtesy personified, and listened carefully to
French’s statement. But when he realised the nature of
the problem he was called upon to solve, he could but
shake his head and shrug his shoulders.</p>

<p>“Alas, monsieur,” he wailed, “but with the best will
in the world, how can I? I change so many English
notes. . . . I recall giving those ten-pound notes to a
gentleman from England, because it is comparatively
seldom that I am asked to change French money into
English, but I am constantly receiving English notes.
No, I am sorry, but I could not tell you where those
came from.”</p>

<p>Though French had scarcely hoped for any other
reply, he was nevertheless disappointed. He showed
Colonel FitzGeorge’s photograph to the manager, who
instantly recognised it as that of the Englishman for
whom he had exchanged the notes. But he could give
no further help.</p>

<p>This clue having petered out, French determined to
call for the register and make a search therein in the
hope of recognising the handwriting of some entry. But
before he did so he asked about Vanderkemp. Had
any one of that name been a recent visitor?</p>

<p>The manager could not recall the name, but he had
a thorough search made of the records. This also drew
blank. French then handed him the photograph of
Vanderkemp which he had obtained in Amsterdam,
asking if he had even seen the original.</p>

<p>With that the luck turned. M. Marcel beamed. “But
yes, monsieur,” he exclaimed, with a succession of nods,
“your friend was here for several days. He left about
a fortnight ago. M. Harrison from one of your great
Midland towns, is it not? He told me which, but I have
forgotten.”</p>

<p>“That’s the man,” cried French heartily, delighted
beyond words at this new development. “I have been
following him round. Might I see his entry in the
register?”</p>

<p>Again the records were brought into requisition, and
as he looked French felt wholly triumphant. On comparing
the “J. Harrison, Huddersfield, England,” to which
the manger pointed, with the samples of Vanderkemp’s
handwriting which he had obtained from Mr. Schoofs,
he saw that unquestionably they were written by the
same hand. So Vanderkemp was his man! After this
there could be no further doubt of his guilt.</p>

<p>For a moment he remained silent, considering what this
discovery meant. It was now evident that Vanderkemp,
under the alias Harrison, had arrived at the Beau-Sejour
Hotel about midday on the second day after the crime,
and after staying a week, had departed for an unknown
destination. But the matter did not end there. With
a sudden, theatrical gesture the manager indicated that
he had more to say.</p>

<p>“You have recalled something to my mind, monsieur,”
he announced. “That M. Harrison asked me to change
notes for him. In fact, I remember the whole thing
clearly. His bill came to between four and five hundred
francs, and he paid with an English ten-pound note.
With the exchange as it is at present, he should have
had about 300 francs change. But I now remember he
asked me at the same time to change a second ten-pound
note. I did so, and gave him about 1000 francs. So it
is possible, I do not say certain, but it is possible. . . .”
He shrugged his shoulders and threw out his hands,
as if to indicate that Fate and not he was responsible
for the possibility, and looked inquiringly at his visitor.</p>

<p>Inspector French was exultant. This news seemed to
him to complete his case. When in Amsterdam he had
found cause to suspect Vanderkemp of the crime, and
now here was corroborative evidence of the most convincing
character. Rapidly he ran over in his mind the
salient points of the case against the traveller.</p>

<p>Vanderkemp possessed all the special knowledge
necessary to commit the crime. He knew of the collection
of diamonds, and was familiar with the London
office and the characters and habits of the workers there.
As he was by no means well-off, this knowledge would
have constituted a very real temptation. So much on
general grounds.</p>

<p>Then as to details. A forged letter calling the man
to London, or some similar device, would be a necessary
feature of the case. But this letter existed; moreover
Vanderkemp had access to the machine on which it
had been typed. While telling Mr. Schoofs that he was
crossing by a certain train, which arrived in town after
the murder had been committed, he had in reality gone
by an earlier service, which would have brought him
there in time to carry out the crime. Such evidence,
though circumstantial, was pretty strong. But when
was added to it the facts that Vanderkemp had disappeared
without explanation from his firm, had arrived
in Chamonix on the second day after the murder, had
registered under a false name and address, and most
important of all, had paid out two of the notes stolen
from Mr. Duke’s safe, the case became overwhelming.
It was impossible not to believe in his guilt; in fact, seldom
had the Inspector known so clear a case. When he
had found and arrested Vanderkemp his work would be
done.</p>

<p>But just in the flush of victory, his luck again turned.
The man had left the Beau-Sejour a week previously,
and the manager had no idea what direction he had
taken. In vain French asked questions and made suggestions,
hoping to say something which might recall
the information to the other’s mind. But the manager
readily gave his help in interviewing the whole of the
staff who had in any way come in contact with the wanted
man. And here, thanks again to his persistent thoroughness,
he obtained just the hint that was needed.</p>

<p>He had worked through the whole staff without result,
and he was about to give up, when it occurred to him
that none of those to whom he had spoken had admitted
having brought down Vanderkemp’s luggage from his
room on the day of his departure. French then asked
directly who had done this, and further inquiries revealed
the fact that in the absence of the usual man, an under
porter, usually employed about the kitchen, had been
called upon. This man stated he had noticed the label
on Vanderkemp’s suitcase. It was to a hotel in Barcelona.
He could not recall the name of the hotel, but he was
sure of the city.</p>

<p>When French had thanked the manager, distributed
backsheesh among the staff, and with the help of the
head porter worked out his journey from Chamonix to
Barcelona, he felt his work in Savoy was done. He went
exultantly to bed, and next morning left by an early train
on his way to Spain.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</span><span epub:type="label">THE HOTEL IN BARCELONA</span></h2>

<p>To a comparative stay-at-home like Inspector French,
who considered a run to Plymouth or Newcastle a long
journey, the trailing of Jan Vanderkemp across south-west
France opened up a conception of the size of the
globe whereon he moved and had his being, which left
him slightly awestruck. The journey from Savoy to
Spain seemed endless, the distances incredible, the expanse
of country between himself and home illimitable.
Hour after hour he sat in the train, while elms and oaks
gave place to cypresses and olives, apples to vines, and
corn to maize, and it was not until daylight had gone on
the evening of the second day that the train rolled into
the Estacion de Francia in Barcelona.</p>

<p>The porter at the Beau-Sejour at Chamonix had written
down the names of two or three hotels at which he thought
English would be spoken, and passing out of the station,
French showed the paper to a taxi driver. The man at
first ogled it distrustfully, then with a smile of comprehension
he emitted a rapid flood of some unknown
language, opened the taxi door, bowed his fare in, and
rapidly cranking his engine, set off into the night. French
was conscious of being whirled down a great avenue
wider than any he had yet seen, brilliantly lighted, and
with rows of palms down the centre; they turned through
a vast square with what looked like a commemorative
column in the middle, then up a slightly narrower, tree-lined
boulevard, where presently the vehicle swung into
the curb and French found himself at his destination—the
Hôtel d’Orient.</p>

<p>To his extreme relief, the head porter spoke English.
He got him to settle with the taxi man, and soon he began
to forget the fatigues of the journey with the help of a
luxurious bath and dinner.</p>

<p>He decided that he had done enough for one day, and
presently, soothed by a cigar, he went out into the great
street in front of the hotel, with its rows of trees and
brilliant arc lamps. He did not know then that this
gently-sloping boulevard was one of the famous streets
of the world—the Rambla, known as is Piccadilly in
London, the Champs Elysées in Paris, or Fifth Avenue
in New York. For an hour he roamed, then, tired out,
he returned to the Orient, and a few minutes later was
sunk in dreamless slumber.</p>

<p>Early next morning he was seated with the manager,
who also spoke English. But neither the manager nor
any of his staff could help him, and French recognised
that so far as the Orient was concerned he had drawn
blank. He therefore set to work on the other hotels,
taking the larger first, the Colon, in the Plaza de
Cataluna, the Cuatro Naciones, and such like. Then
he went on to the smaller establishments, and at the
fourth he paused suddenly, thrilled by an unexpected
sight.</p>

<p>The hotel was in a side street off the Paseo de Colon,
the great boulevard through which he had been driven
on the previous evening. The entrance door led into
a kind of lounge in which were seated half a dozen people,
evidently waiting for déjeuner. With one exception
these were obviously Spaniards, but that exception,
French felt he could swear, was the original of the
photograph.</p>

<p>In spite of such a meeting being what he was hoping
for, the Inspector was taken aback. But his hesitation
was momentary. Passing immediately on to the little
office at the back of the lounge, he said in English:</p>

<p>“Can I have lunch, please? Will it soon be ready?”</p>

<p>A dark-eyed, dark-haired girl came forward, smiling
but shaking her head regretfully, and murmuring what
was evidently that she couldn’t understand.</p>

<p>“You don’t speak English, miss?” the detective went
on, speaking loudly and very clearly. “I want to know
can I have lunch, and if it will soon be ready?”</p>

<p>As the girl still shook her head, French turned back
into the lounge.</p>

<p>“Excuse me,” he addressed the company generally,
“but might I ask if any of you gentlemen speak English?
I can’t make this young lady understand.”</p>

<p>The little ruse succeeded. The man resembling Vanderkemp
rose.</p>

<p>“I speak English,” he answered. “What is it you
want?”</p>

<p>“Lunch,” French returned, “and to know if it will
soon be ready.”</p>

<p>“I can answer that for you,” the other declared, after
he had explained the situation to the girl. “Lunch will
be ready in exactly five minutes, and visitors are usually
welcome.”</p>

<p>“Thank you.” French spoke in a leisurely, conversational
way. “I am staying at the Orient, where one or
two of them speak English, but business brought me to
this part of the town, and I did not want to go all that
way back to lunch. A confounded nuisance this language
business! It makes you feel pretty helpless when you
want to talk to people.”</p>

<p>“That’s true,” the stranger admitted. “In most of
the larger hotels they speak French and English, but at
practically none of the smaller. In this one, for example,
one waiter has a few words of French only. No English
or Italian or German. Some of the staff don’t even
speak Spanish.”</p>

<p>French was interested in spite of the larger question
which was occupying his mind.</p>

<p>“Not Spanish?” he repeated. “How do you mean?
What do they speak?”</p>

<p>“Catalan. This is Catalonia, you know, and both the
race and the language are different from the rest of Spain.
They are more go-ahead and enterprising than the people
farther south.”</p>

<p>“That sounds a bit like Ireland,” French remarked.
“I’ve been both in Belfast and in the south, and the same
things seems to hold good. Though Dublin is a fine city,
and no mistake.”</p>

<p>They continued discussing peoples and languages and
the northerly concentration of energy to be found in
most countries, until the hands of the clock pointed to
noon and lunch time. Then French caught what he had
been angling for. The stranger asked him to share his
table.</p>

<p>The Inspector continued to make himself agreeable,
and after they had finished invited the other to have
coffee and a cigar with him in a deserted corner of the
lounge. Then thinking his companion was by this time
off his guard, he introduced a new subject after a lull in
the conversation.</p>

<p>“It’s strange the different businesses people are engaged
on,” he remarked ruminatively, as he poured
himself out a second cup of coffee. “Now, I wouldn’t
mind betting a ten-pound note you wouldn’t guess what
I am, and what my business here is.”</p>

<p>The other laughed.</p>

<p>“I confess I was wondering,” he admitted. “I am
afraid I should lose my money. I won’t guess.”</p>

<p>“Well, I’ll tell you, though our business is not a thing
we speak of as a rule. I am a detective inspector from
Scotland Yard.”</p>

<p>As he spoke French watched the other’s face. If this
were the man of whom he was in search, he could swear
he would make him exhibit some emotion.</p>

<p>But so far he did not succeed. His new acquaintance
merely laughed again.</p>

<p>“Then I should have lost. I admit I never thought
of that.”</p>

<p>French continued to observe, and he went on with more
seriousness in his manner.</p>

<p>“Yes, and I’m on rather important business, too. Man
wanted for murder and robbery in the City. A bad
affair enough. He murdered the confidential clerk of
a diamond merchant in Hatton Garden and rifled the
safe and got off with I don’t know how many thousand
pounds’ worth of stuff.”</p>

<p>At the commencement of French’s reply the stranger
had listened with but little more than a conventional interest,
but at the mention of a diamond merchant in
Hatton Garden he figuratively sat up and began to take
notice.</p>

<p>“Hatton Garden?” he repeated. “That’s an extraordinary
coincidence. Why, I belong to a firm of diamond
merchants in Hatton Garden. I know them all. Who
was the man?”</p>

<p>Inspector French was puzzled. Either Vanderkemp—for
there could no longer be any doubt of his identity—was
innocent, or he was an almost incredibly good actor.
Anxious to observe the man further, he fenced a little
in his reply.</p>

<p>“Is it possible you haven’t heard?” he asked in apparent
surprise. “How long is it since you have heard
from home?”</p>

<p>“Haven’t had a line of any kind since I left, and
that’s nearly three weeks ago; on the night of the 25th
of last month to be exact.”</p>

<p>“The 25th! Well, that’s a coincidence, too. That’s
the very night poor old Mr. Gething was killed.”</p>

<p>Vanderkemp stiffened suddenly and his hands closed
on the arms of his chair.</p>

<p>“What?” he cried. “Not Charles Gething of Messrs.
Duke &amp; Peabody?”</p>

<p>French, now keenly observing him without any
attempt at concealment, nodded.</p>

<p>“That’s the man. You knew him then?”</p>

<p>“Of course I knew him. Why, it’s my own firm.
Good God, to think of poor old Gething! And you say
the safe was rifled? You don’t tell me Mr. Duke’s
collection of stones is gone?”</p>

<p>“All of it, and money as well. The murderer made
a clean sweep.”</p>

<p>Vanderkemp whistled and then swore.</p>

<p>“Tell me about it.”</p>

<p>French was more than ever puzzled. The traveller’s
manner, his evident emotion, his questions—all seemed
those of an innocent man. He felt doubts arising in his
mind; possibly there might be an explanation. . . . He
did not at once reply, as he turned over in his mind how
he could best surprise the other into an admission of the
truth.</p>

<p>But Vanderkemp also was evidently thinking, and
suddenly an expression of deeper concern showed on his
face. He made as if to speak, then hesitated and a wary
look appeared in his eyes. He cleared his throat, then
in a changed voice asked, “At what time did it happen?”</p>

<p>French leaned forward swiftly and fixed his eyes on his
companion as he said in a low, tense tone, “That’s what
I want to ask you, Mr. Vanderkemp.”</p>

<p>The man started. He did not answer, and the wary
look in his eyes changed into definite anxiety, which
deepened as the moments passed. At last he spoke.</p>

<p>“It had just dawned on me from what you said,
Inspector, that our meeting here was not such a coincidence
as I at first imagined. I see that you suspect me
of the crime. What has happened I don’t know, what
you have against me I don’t know either, but I can tell
at once that I am not only absolutely innocent, but until
you told me just now I was ignorant that a crime had
been committed. I will tell you my whole story and
answer any questions you may like to ask, whether you
believe me or not.”</p>

<p>French nodded. Certainly, if guilty, this man was a
consummate actor. There was at least the chance that
he might be innocent, and he answered accordingly.</p>

<p>“I don’t accuse you of anything, Mr. Vanderkemp.
But there are certain suspicious circumstances which
require an explanation. You may be able to account for
all of them—I hope you will. At the same time it is
fair to warn you that, failing an explanation, your arrest
is not impossible, and in that case anything that you may
say now may be used against you in evidence.”</p>

<p>Vanderkemp was by this time extremely ill at ease.
His face had paled and had already taken on a somewhat
drawn and haggard expression. For a while he
remained silent, buried in thought, then with a sudden
gesture as of throwing further caution to the winds, he
began to speak.</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you what I know, Inspector,” he said earnestly.
“Whether, if you are going to arrest me, I am wise or
foolish, I don’t know. But I can at least assure you that
it is the literal truth.”</p>

<p>He looked at the Inspector, who nodded approval.</p>

<p>“Of course I can’t advise you, Mr. Vanderkemp,” he
remarked, “but all the same I believe you are doing the
wise thing.”</p>

<p>“I am in a difficulty,” Vanderkemp went on, “as I
don’t know how much of the circumstances you are
familiar with. It would therefore be better if you would
ask me questions.”</p>

<p>“I shall do so, but first I should like your own statement.
I am aware of your name and position in the firm.
Also that Mr. Schoofs received a letter on the 21st of
last month, asking him to send you to London to undertake
an important commission in Sweden. Also that you
left your lodgings in the Kinkerstraat at 8.30 on the
evening of the 24th. I have since learned certain other
facts as to your subsequent movements, which I need
not mention at the moment. What I want you now
to do is to let me have a detailed account of your experiences
from the moment of your leaving your lodgings
until the present time.”</p>

<p>“I will do so.” Vanderkemp spoke eagerly, as if now
anxious to get through with the matter. “But there
is one thing which comes earlier in point of time which
I must mention. You have probably heard of it from
Mr. Duke, but I shall tell you anyway. I mean about
my further instructions as to my London visit—the
private instructions. You have seen a copy of them?”</p>

<p>French, always cautious, was not giving away information.
He wondered to what the other was
referring, but merely said, “Assume I have not, Mr.
Vanderkemp. It is obvious that I must check your
statement by the information in my possession.”</p>

<p>“Well, then, though you probably know it already,
I may tell you I received additional instructions about
my visit. Mr. Duke wrote me a private letter, addressed
to my lodgings, in which he told me—but I have
it here, and you can see it for yourself.”</p>

<p>He took an envelope from his pocketbook and passed
it across. It contained a note almost identical in
appearance with the forged one which Mr. Schoofs had
received. It was typewritten on a sheet of the firm’s
cheaper memorandum paper, with the same kind of type
and the same coloured ribbon. Examination with the
lens showed the same defects in the n and the g, the
signature was obviously forged, and the back of the sheet
was marked from a heavy touch. Evidently both letters
had been written by the same person, and on the Hatton
Garden machine. The note read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“<span class="sc">Dear Vanderkemp</span>,—Further to my note to Mr.
Schoofs re your call here on Wednesday morning, 26th
inst., the business on which I wish to see you has turned
out to be more urgent than I at first believed, and
I shall therefore have to ask you to advance the hour
of your interview, and also to leave London for Paris—not
Stockholm—immediately after it. I shall return to
the office after dinner on Tuesday evening, 25th inst.,
and shall be glad if you will call there at 8.30 p.m.,
when I shall give you your instructions. This will
enable you to catch the 9.30 p.m. for Paris, via
Southampton and Havre.</p>

<p>“I wish to impress on you that as the business in
question is exceptionally confidential, you will oblige
me by keeping your change of plans to yourself.</p>

<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:8em;">“Yours truly,</p>
<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:2em;">“<span class="sc">R. A. Duke</span>.”</p>

</div>

<p>Inspector French was keenly interested, but he
recognised with exasperation how inconclusive the letter
was as evidence. Either it had been sent to Vanderkemp
as he stated, in which case he might be innocent, or the
man had written it himself, in which case he certainly was
guilty, it was true that in this instance an envelope was
forthcoming which bore a London E.C. postmark and
the correct date, but here again there was no proof that
this was really the covering in which the letter had come.
These points passed through the Inspector’s mind, but
he banished them as matters to be thought out later, and
turned once more to his companion.</p>

<p>“I shall keep this, if you don’t mind,” he declared.
“Please proceed.”</p>

<p>“I carried out the instructions in the letter,” Vanderkemp
resumed. “The change of hours necessitated
my leaving Amsterdam by the night train on the 24th,
and I spent the following day at my hotel in London,
and in doing a matinee. At 8.30, with my luggage, I
reached Hatton Garden. I found the outer office was in
darkness, but a light shone out of the doorway of the
inner office. Mr. Gething was there alone. He told me
to come in and shut the door, and I did so, and sat down
in the clients’ arm-chair. Mr. Gething was seated at
Mr. Duke’s desk, which was open.”</p>

<p>“Was the safe open?”</p>

<p>“No, nor was it opened while I was there. Mr. Gething
told me that Mr. Duke had intended to be present to
give me my instructions in person, but at the last moment
he had been prevented coming down, and that he had
asked him, Mr. Gething, to do it instead. It seemed
that Mr. Duke had got information from a confidential
agent at Constantinople that a member of the old Russian
aristocracy had escaped with his family jewels from the
clutches of the Bolsheviks, and that he now wished to
dispose of the whole collection for what it would bring.
He was at one time Duke Sergius of one of the Ural
provinces—I have the name in my book upstairs—but
was now passing himself off as a Pole under the name of
Francisko Loth. The collection was one of extraordinary
excellence, and Mr. Duke believed it could be purchased
for a third, or even less, of its real value. He had approached
the duke through the agent, and had offered
to deal. The trouble, however, was that the Soviet
Government had learned of the duke’s escape, and were
displaying immense energy in the hope of recapturing
him. Their agents were scouring the whole of Europe,
and Loth was in mortal terror, for discovery meant
certain death. Mr. Gething told me straight also, that
should I succeed in purchasing, my life would not be
worth a tinker’s curse until I had handed over the stuff.
He said that, recognising this, Mr. Duke considered that
my commission should be substantially increased, and
he asked me was I willing to take on the job.”</p>

<p>“And you agreed?”</p>

<p>“Well, what do you think? Of course I agreed. I
asked for further details, and he let me have them. For
both my own safety and Loth’s, I was to take extraordinary
precautions. My name is pretty well known in
dealers’ circles over Europe, and therefore would be
known to the Soviet emissaries, so I was to take another.
I was to become John Harrison, of Huddersfield, a
tinplate manufacturer. I was not to write to the office
direct, but to send my reports, if any were necessary, to
Mr. Herbert Lyons, a friend of Mr. Duke’s, who lived
not far from him at Hampstead. If I had to write,
I was to be most careful to phrase my letter so that were
I suspected and my correspondence tampered with, it
would not give the affair away. Instructions to me would
be sent to Harrison and written on plain notepaper, and
would be worded in a similar careful way. Mr. Gething
gave me a code by which I could wire the amount agreed
on, when the money would be sent me by special
messenger; that is, if we could come to terms.”</p>

<p>Vanderkemp paused and glanced at the Inspector, but
the latter not speaking, he continued:</p>

<p>“Loth was hidden in Constantinople, but was trying to
come west. He was not sure whether he could do so
best by land or sea. If he could get out of Turkey by
land, he would work his way up the Danube to Austria
and Switzerland, and would stop eventually at the Beau-Sejour
Hotel in Chamonix. If that proved impossible,
he would try to leave by sea, and would travel by one
of the Navigazione Generale Italiana boats to Genoa,
and thence to Barcelona, where he would put up at the
Gomez Hotel, that is, this one. He had let Mr. Duke
know through his Constantinople friend that if he didn’t
turn up at Chamonix by the 4th, it would mean either
that the Bolsheviks had caught him, or that he was
making for Barcelona. My instructions, therefore, were
to go to Chamonix, put up at the Beau-Sejour, and look
out until the 4th for a tall, white-complexioned, dark-haired
man named Francisko Loth. If by that time he
had not turned up, I was to move on here. I was to wait
here for a fortnight, at the end of which time, if I had
still heard nothing of him, I was to go on to Constantinople,
look up Mr. Duke’s agent, and try for news of
Loth’s fate.”</p>

<p>“And you carried out the instructions?”</p>

<p>“Yes. I went to Chamonix, and stayed there for a
week. Seeing no one who could possibly be the man,
I came on here, and have been waiting here ever since.
To-morrow I proposed to leave for Constantinople.”</p>

<p>French threw away the butt of his cigar and selected
another.</p>

<p>“Such a trip could not be accomplished without
money,” he said slowly. “How were you equipped in
that way?”</p>

<p>“Mr. Gething handed me a hundred pounds in ten-pound
notes. I changed two in Chamonix and I have
the remaining eight in my pocket.”</p>

<p>“You might let me see them.”</p>

<p>Vanderkemp readily complied, and the Inspector found,
as he expected, that the eight notes were among those
stolen from the safe. He resumed his interrogation.</p>

<p>“You say you reached the office in Hatton Garden
about half-past eight?”</p>

<p>“Yes, and left about nine. My business occupied only
half an hour.”</p>

<p>“And you saw no one except Mr. Gething?”</p>

<p>“No one.”</p>

<p>French, having offered his possible future prisoner
another cigar, sat silent, thinking deeply. He had no
doubt that the story of the escaped Russian was a fabrication
from beginning to end. Besides being an unlikely
tale in itself, it broke down on the point of its authorship.
Vanderkemp’s statement was that Gething had been told
the story by Mr. Duke, and that Mr. Duke would have
been present to tell it to him, Vanderkemp, in person,
were he not prevented by some unexpected cause. This
also was an obvious fabrication, but the reason of its
insertion into the tale was clear enough. Without it, the
story would have no authority. The use of Mr. Duke’s
name was an essential part of any such scheme, just as
the forging of Mr. Duke’s signature had been necessary
for the letters of instruction to Schoofs and Vanderkemp.</p>

<p>But though French felt sure enough of his ground so
far, on trying to take a further step he was held up by
the same difficulty with which he had been faced in
considering the forged letters. Was Gething guilty, and
had he invented this elaborate plan to throw suspicion on
to Vanderkemp, or was Vanderkemp the criminal, and
the story his scheme for accounting for his actions since
the murder? That was a real difficulty, and French sat
wondering if there was no test he could apply, no way
in which he could reach certainty, no trap which the
victim would be unable to avoid?</p>

<p>For some time he could think of none, but presently
an idea occurred to him which he thought might be worth
while following up. Some information might be gained
through the typewriting of the two forged letters. Could
Vanderkemp type, and if so, was his work done with a
light or heavy touch? He turned to his companion.</p>

<p>“I wish you would write me a short statement of your
movements in London on the night of the crime, stating
the times at which you arrived at and left the various
places you visited. I should prefer it typed—that is,
if you can type. Can you?”</p>

<p>Vanderkemp smiled wanly.</p>

<p>“I think so,” he answered. “I type and write shorthand
in four languages. But I’ve no machine here.”</p>

<p>“Borrow one from the office,” French suggested, as he
expressed his admiration of the other’s prowess.</p>

<p>It took a personal visit to the office, but Vanderkemp,
anxious to defer to the Inspector’s whims, managed to
overcome the scruples of the languorous, dark-eyed
beauty who reigned therein, and returned triumphant
with the machine. Ten minutes later French had his
time-table.</p>

<p>Instantly he saw that Vanderkemp typed as an expert—with
a light, sure touch that produced a perfect impression,
but did not dint the paper. It was a point in
the man’s favour. By no means conclusive, it was still
by no means negligible.</p>

<p>Inspector French was puzzled. His experience told
him that in this world the ordinary, natural and obvious
thing happened. A man who secretly visited the scene
of a crime at about the hour at which the crime was
known to be committed, and who then left the country
on a mysterious and improbable mission, the reality of
which was denied by its alleged author, a man, further,
who had in his pocket bank-notes stolen from the scene
of the crime, such a man in ordinary, prosaic, everyday
life was the criminal. Such, French thought, was common
sense, and common sense, he considered, was right
ninety-nine times out of a hundred.</p>

<p>But there was always the hundredth chance. Improbabilities
and coincidences <span class="it">did</span> occasionally happen. He
would have given a good deal at that moment to know if
this case was the exception that proves the rule.</p>

<p>He saw clearly that his second explanation, if somewhat
more far-fetched, was still quite possibly true. It certainly
might be that Vanderkemp had been duped, that
he had been sent on this wild goose chase by the
murderer, with the object of drawing on himself just that
suspicion which he had attracted, and thus allowing
the real scent to cool. A good many of the facts tended
in that direction, the forged letters, the keeping of the
alleged deal from Schoofs, the fact that no Russian
nobleman had turned up at either of the rendezvous
named, the travelling under a false name, the warning
against communications with the office, and last, but
not least, Vanderkemp’s manner during the interview,
all these undoubtedly supported the view that the
traveller had been used to lay a gigantic false clue.</p>

<p>If so, it was a fiendish trap to set for the unfortunate
dupe. French thought he could see how it was intended
to pan out. Vanderkemp, while on these mysterious
journeys—certainly when he reached Mr. Duke’s agent
in Constantinople—would learn of the murder, and he
would at once see how he had been victimised. The
more he learned of the details, the more he would realise
how completely he was in the toils. He would recognise
that if he went home and told his story he would not have
a dog’s chance of clearing himself, and he would turn
his apparent flight into a real one, and so permanently
fasten upon himself a tacit admission of guilt. It was
an ingenious scheme, and if it really were the explanation
of these mysterious happenings, it gave an indication of
the character and mentality of the man who had devised
it.</p>

<p>French was by no means decided as to the truth of
the matter, but on the whole he thought that though he
undoubtedly had evidence to justify him in applying for
the arrest and extradition of the traveller, he would prefer
to avoid this step if possible. If the man tried to give
him the slip, the local police would get him in no time.
Accordingly he turned once more to Vanderkemp.</p>

<p>“Mr. Vanderkemp,” he began, “I am strongly inclined
to believe your story. But as a man of the world you
will readily see that it must be more completely examined
before it can be fully accepted. Now the question is,
Are you willing to come back with me to London and
give me your assistance towards finding out the truth?
I can make you no promise that you will not be arrested
on reaching British ground, but I can promise you that
you will be fairly dealt with and get every chance and
assistance to prove your innocence.”</p>

<p>Vanderkemp did not hesitate in his reply.</p>

<p>“I will go,” he said promptly. “I am aware that you
can have me arrested here, if you want to, by applying
to the Spanish authorities, so I have no choice. But
I think I should go in any case. I have done nothing
contrary to the law, and I have done nothing to be
ashamed of. I cannot now rest until my innocence is
admitted.”</p>

<p>French nodded gravely.</p>

<p>“Once again, sir, I think you are doing the wise thing.
Let us go to-night by the Paris express. In the meantime
come with me to the post office and help me to send
a wire to the Yard.”</p>

<p>Two mornings later they reached London. Mr. Duke
was naturally amazed at his subordinate’s story, and on
hearing the evidence, gave it as his opinion that Vanderkemp
was the dupe of some person or persons unknown.
What was more to the point, Chief Inspector Mitchell,
French’s immediate superior, took the same view, and
Vanderkemp, therefore, was not arrested, though he was
shadowed night and day. French undertook an investigation
into his life and circumstances, which showed that
these had been painted in somewhat darker colours than
appeared justifiable, but which revealed no evidence
about the crime. Furthermore, none of the jewels could
be traced to him, nor any of the stolen notes other than
those he had spoken of.</p>

<p>Once more the days began to slip past without bringing
to light any fresh fact, and as time passed French
grew more worried and despondent, and his superior
officers more querulous. And then something occurred
to turn his attention to a completely different side of the
case, and send him off with fresh hope and energy on a
new clue.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</span><span epub:type="label">CONCERNING A WEDDING</span></h2>

<p>When Inspector French felt really up against it in the
conduct of a case, it was his invariable habit to recount
the circumstances in the fullest detail to his wife. She,
poor woman, haled from the mysterious household
employments in which her soul delighted, would resignedly
fetch her sewing and sit placidly in the corner of the
Chesterfield while her lord and master strode up and
down the room stating his premises, arguing therefrom
with ruthless logic and not a few gestures, sifting his
facts, grouping them, restating them. . . . Sometimes
she interjected a remark, sometimes she didn’t; usually
she warned him to be careful not to knock over the small
table beside the piano, and invariably she wished he
would walk on the less worn parts of the carpet. But
she listened to what he said, and occasionally expressed
an opinion, or, as he called it, “took a notion.” And
more than once it had happened that these notions had
thrown quite a new light on the point at issue, a light
which in at least two cases had indicated the line of
research which had eventually cleared up the mystery.</p>

<p>On the second evening after his return from Spain, the
Inspector was regaling her with a by no means brief
<span class="it">résumé</span> of the Hatton Garden crime. She had listened
more carefully than usual, and presently he found she
had taken a notion.</p>

<p>“I don’t believe that poor old man was out to do
anything wrong,” she declared. “It’s a shame for you
to try to take away his character now he’s dead.”</p>

<p>French, stopping his pacing of the room, faced round.</p>

<p>“But I’m not trying to take away his character, Emily
dear,” he protested, nettled by this unexpected attack
in the rear. “I’m only saying that he’s the only person
we know of who could have got an impression of the
key. If so, it surely follows he was out to rob the safe.”</p>

<p>“Well, I believe you’re wrong,” the lady affirmed,
continuing with a logic as relentless as his own, “because
if he was out to rob the safe, he wasn’t the sort of man
that you described, and if he was the sort of man that
you described, why, then, he wasn’t out to rob the safe.
That’s what I think about it.”</p>

<p>French was a trifle staggered. The difficulty he had
recognised from the beginning, but he had not considered
it serious. Now, put to him in the downright, uncompromising
language in which his wife usually clothed
her thoughts, it suddenly seemed to him overwhelming.
What she said was true. There was here a discrepancy.
If Gething really bore the character he was given by all
who had known him, he was not a thief.</p>

<p>He ceased his restless movement, and sitting down at
the table, he opened his notebook and began to look up
what he had actually learned about the dead man. And
the more he did so, the more he came to believe that his
wife was right. Unless all this cloud of witnesses were
surprisingly mistaken, Gething was innocent.</p>

<p>His mind reverted to the other horn of the dilemma.
If Gething were innocent, who took the impression of
the key? It was not obtained from that in the bank,
therefore it was copied from that in Mr. Duke’s possession.
Who had done it?</p>

<p>No one at the office, at least not unless Mr. Duke was
greatly mistaken. And he did not believe the principal
could be mistaken on such a point. The breaking
through of his regular custom in a matter of such
importance would almost certainly be noted and remembered.
No, French felt that he might rely on Mr.
Duke’s statement so far.</p>

<p>But with regard to his assertion that no one in his
house could have tampered with the key, the Inspector
saw that he was on more shaky ground. In the nature
of the case, the diamond merchant would be less alert
in dealing with the members of his own household than
with his business acquaintances. Believing he was surrounded
by friends, he would subconsciously be more
ready to assume his precautions adequate. Was Mr.
Duke’s belief that no one would touch the key not the
real basis of his statement that no one had done so?</p>

<p>It seemed to French that here was a possibility that
he had overlooked, and it was in the nature of the man
that the moment he reached such a conclusion he began
to consider a way of retrieving his error.</p>

<p>At first he thought of taking Mr. Duke into his confidence
and asking him to assist him in some subterfuge
by which he could enter the house. But presently he
saw that it would be better if the old gentleman knew
nothing of his plan, lest he might inadvertently warn
a possible criminal.</p>

<p>For the same reason—that Mr. Duke might get to
know of it—he decided he would be wiser not to undertake
the business in person. But he knew the man for
the job—a certain detective-sergeant named Patrick
Nolan. This man was something of a Don Juan in
his way, and had a positive genius for extracting confidences
from the fair sex. If he could scrape acquaintance
with the maids of the establishment, it would not
be long before he knew all they had to tell.</p>

<p>Accordingly next morning he sent for Sergeant Nolan
and explained his idea, and Nolan, who, where his
superiors were concerned, was a man of few words,
said, “Yes, sir,” and withdrew.</p>

<p>The following day he returned with his first report.
It seemed that, changing into the garb of a better-class
mechanic and taking a small kit of tools with him, he
had called at Mr. Duke’s in the character of an electrician
who had been sent to overhaul the light fittings.</p>

<p>Miss Duke happened to be out, and the rather pretty
housemaid who opened the door, charmed with the newcomer’s
manner, admitted him without hesitation. He
had gone all over the house, paying particular attention
to Mr. Duke’s bedroom. In the middle of the day he
had asked and been granted leave to heat his can of
soup at the kitchen fire, and to such purpose had he
used the opportunities thus gained that before he left
he had prevailed on the pretty housemaid to go with him
to supper and the pictures on her next evening out.
“Once I get a drop of spirits into her I’ll get all she
knows,” he concluded, “though I doubt if it’ll be much.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right so far as it goes,” French admitted,
“but what have you actually found out?”</p>

<p>“Well, there’s first of all the family. It’s a small one;
there’s only the father and the daughter, Miss Sylvia.
The mother’s alive, but she has been in a lunatic asylum
for years, quite incurable, they said. Miss Sylvia is a
nice-looking young lady and well liked, by what Rachael
says—that’s the housemaid. Then there’s the servants;
this Rachael, and another girl, Annie, and Sarah, the
cook, and there’s a shover they call Manley. I didn’t see
him, but the girls seem all right—not the kind that would
be after the keys of jewel safes anyway.”</p>

<p>“What’s the house like?”</p>

<p>“It’s a middling big house, and the furniture’ll have
been good when it was bought, though it’s getting a trifle
shabby now. Mr. Duke’s bedroom is at the end of
the left wing, and Miss Duke’s is in the front of the
house, so anybody could go through Mr. Duke’s room
without being seen. Anybody could get a mould of that
key if he left it in his room, say, while he was having his
bath.”</p>

<p>“Did you find out any possibilities; any tradesmen
in, like yourself, or any one staying in the house?”</p>

<p>The Sergeant shook his head.</p>

<p>“I did not, sir,” he admitted. “I thought I had maybe
done enough for one day. I didn’t want to be after
starting them wondering about me. But I’ll get that
out of Rachael to-morrow night.”</p>

<p>“Better see that Manley, the chauffeur—or no, I shall
see him myself. You stick to what you’re at. Anything
else?”</p>

<p>“No, sir, I think not. What the girls talked most
about was Miss Sylvia’s engagement. It seems she was
engaged to some friend in the City and they were to
have been married at the end of the month, and now
they’ve had some bust up and the whole thing’s postponed,
if not off altogether.”</p>

<p>“That so? They didn’t tell you the reason?”</p>

<p>“They did not, sir. But I can likely find out from
Rachael if you want to know.”</p>

<p>“I don’t suppose I do,” French returned, “but you
might as well find out what you can—on spec. You
know who the young man is?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. They didn’t say.”</p>

<p>French looked up his notebook.</p>

<p>“I seem to know a deal more about it than you do,”
he grumbled. “He is a clerk in Mr. Duke’s office, name
of Harrington—Stanley Harrington. I interviewed him
with the others in the office on the day after the murder,
and he told me about the engagement. It seemed to
be going strong then. When did they postpone it?”</p>

<p>“They didn’t say that either, sir.”</p>

<p>“Well, find that out, too. That’ll do for the present.”</p>

<p>That evening French, in the guise of an out-of-work
mechanic, took up his stand near Mr. Duke’s house, and
presently saw the old gentleman arrive back from business
in his car. An hour later he followed the chauffeur from
the garage to a house in a small street off Esther Road.
There French hung about for perhaps another hour, when
he had the satisfaction of seeing the quarry emerge again,
pass down the street, and disappear into the Rose and
Thistle bar. This was just what the Inspector had
hoped for, and after a few minutes he followed him in.</p>

<p>To scrape acquaintance was easy enough. French,
as a motor mechanic out of work, was provided with a
ready introduction to any chauffeur, and over a couple
of glasses of beer he learned first of the chances of jobs
in the district, and secondly, by skilful pumping, many
details of his new companion’s work and of the Duke
menage. But he heard nothing that seemed in the
slightest degree suspicious or interesting. The man
himself, moreover, seemed of an honest, harmless type,
and much too stupid to be concerned personally in enterprises
with keys of safes.</p>

<p>For a day the inquiry hung fire, and then Sergeant
Nolan brought in a report which turned the Inspector’s
thoughts into still another channel. Nolan had, it appeared,
taken the pretty housemaid, Rachael, first to the
pictures and then to supper at a popular restaurant. The
girl had what the Sergeant called “the gift of the gab,”
and it had only been necessary for him judiciously to
supply an occasional topic, to have a continuous stream
of more or less relevant information poured into his
receptive ears.</p>

<p>First he had tried to ascertain whether any one had
recently had access to Mr. Duke’s dressing-room during
the night or early morning, and he soon learned that,
prior to his own visit, no tradesmen had been in the house
for many months. Moreover, the only visitor who had
stayed overnight for a considerable time was Mr. Stanley
Harrington, Miss Duke’s <span class="it">fiancée</span>. The two young people
had been feverishly engaged in rehearsals for a play
given by a local amateur dramatic society, and for the
four nights previous to the entertainment Miss Duke had
refused to allow her swain to waste time in going to
and from his rooms, and had insisted on his putting up
with them. This occurred about a month before the
murder, and Harrington had slept in a room just opposite
to Mr. Duke’s. It was obvious, therefore, that had the
key been left in the dressing-room at any time, Harrington
could easily have taken the necessary impression.</p>

<p>Nolan then went on to tell what he had found out as
to the postponed wedding, and in this French felt he had
food for thought. It appeared that the trouble, whatever
it was, had come suddenly, and it had taken place on
the day after the murder. On the evening of the crime,
so Rachael had said, Mr. Duke was not at home for
dinner, but Mr. Harrington had turned up. He and
Miss Duke had dined together, and then everything
was <span class="it">couleur de rose</span>. They had gone out together
after dinner. About ten, Miss Duke had returned and had
gone straight to bed. Almost certainly, therefore, she
had not known that night of Mr. Duke’s call to the office.
Next morning she had breakfasted with her father, and
had presumably then learned of the tragedy. But not
five minutes after breakfast began she had slipped out
of the room and had made a telephone call, and directly
Mr. Duke had left the house she had put on her things
and followed him. She had been absent for about twenty
minutes, and had then gone direct to her bedroom, where,
on the plea of a headache, she had spent the day. When
Rachael had had occasion to enter, she found her lying
down, but the girl had heard her hour after hour pacing
the room, and in her opinion, her mistress’s indisposition
was more mental than physical. About four o’clock that
afternoon Mr. Harrington had called. Miss Duke saw
him in her own sitting-room, and during the interview
some terrible quarrel must have taken place. Mr. Harrington
left in about half an hour, and Rachael, who had
opened the door to let him out, said that he looked as
if he had received his death warrant. His face wore
an expression of the most acute consternation and misery,
and he seemed like a man in a dream, stupefied by some
terrible calamity. He usually spoke pleasantly to the
girl when leaving, but on this occasion he did not appear
to notice her presence, but stumbled blindly out of the
house and crept off like a broken man. Later the same
evening she had seen Miss Duke, and she noticed that
her eyes were red and swollen from crying. Since then,
the young lady had changed out of all knowing. She
had become silent, melancholy, and depressed. She had
grown thin and old looking, and was eating nothing, and,
Rachael had opined, if something were not done, they
would soon see her in a decline.</p>

<p>Inspector French was not a little intrigued by all this
information. That there was a connection between the
murder of Charles Gething and the postponed wedding
he could scarcely believe, and yet some of the facts
seemed almost to point in that direction.</p>

<p>If Miss Duke had first learned of the tragedy from her
father at breakfast, was this knowledge the cause of her
telephone call? To whom was the call made? What
had she done during her twenty-minute absence from
the house? What had taken place at the interview between
Miss Duke and Harrington, and, most important
of all, why had the wedding been postponed? French
felt that he could not rest until he had obtained answers
to all these questions, and it seemed to him that the only
way he could do so would be to trace the girl’s movements
in detail during the whole period in question.</p>

<p>For a long time he continued sitting at his desk as he
considered ways and means. At last he telephoned once
more for Sergeant Nolan.</p>

<p>“Look here,” he began, when the man presented himself,
“I want you to get something more out of that girl.
When can you see her again?”</p>

<p>“Sunday, sir,” said the charmer. “I left an opening
for meeting her for fear it would maybe be wanted.”</p>

<p>“And this is Friday. Well, I suppose I shall have to
wait. Better see her on Sunday and find out these things
in this order. First, in what vehicle Miss Duke drove
to her friend’s girls’ club on the night of the crime;
secondly, what vehicle she came back in, and thirdly,
whether she received any note or message between the
time she returned that night and Mr. Harrington’s call
next day, other than what she might have learned during
her telephone call and absence from the house after
breakfast. Got that?”</p>

<p>Nolan, signifying that he had, left the room, and
French turned his attention to his routine work, which
had got sadly behind.</p>

<p>On the following Monday morning, Sergeant Nolan
made his report. He had taken his fair quarry up the
river on Sunday afternoon, and there he had got his
information.</p>

<p>Miss Duke and Mr. Harrington had left in Mr. Duke’s
car shortly before eight. Manley, the chauffeur, had
mentioned to Rachael that his young mistress had told
him he need not wait for her, as she expected that Mr.
Duke would want him later in the evening to take him
home from his club. She had returned about ten in a
taxi, and had come in quickly and gone to her room.
So far as Rachael knew, she had received no caller, note
or other message from then until Mr. Harrington arrived
next day, other than those excepted in the question.</p>

<p>French was anxious to keep secret the fact that he
was looking into Miss Duke’s doings, and he was therefore
unwilling to question Manley on the matter. He
had learned from Harrington the address of the girls’
club, and he thought inquiries there might give him his
information. Accordingly an hour later saw him standing
before a somewhat dilapidated church school-house
in a narrow street of drab and depressing houses in the
Shadwell district. The school was closed, but inquiries
next door produced the information that the caretaker
lived in No. 47.</p>

<p>He betook himself to No. 47, and there found a pale,
tired-looking young woman with a baby in her arms,
who, when he asked for a few moments’ conversation,
invited him into an untidy and not overclean kitchen.
She told him, in reply to his questions, that the club
was run by a number of ladies, headed by a Miss Amy
Lestrange. It was open each evening, but she, the
speaker, was not present, her duty being only to keep
the rooms clean. But her husband, the caretaker, was
there off and on every evening. He might have been
there when the young lady in question arrived, she did
not know. But he worked in the factory near by, and
would be in for his dinner in half an hour, if the gentleman
liked to wait.</p>

<p>French said he would call back presently, and strolled
out through the depressing neighbourhood. In forty-five
minutes he was back at No. 47, where the caretaker had
just arrived. French told him to go on with his dinner,
and sat beside him as he ate. The man, evidently hoping
the affair would have its financial side, was anxious to tell
everything he knew.</p>

<p>It seemed that he had been present at the club on the
evening in question, and when French had described his
young couple, he remembered their arrival. It was not
usual for so fine a motor to penetrate the fastnesses of
that dismal region, and its appearance had fixed the
matter in his memory. The gentleman had got out first
and asked him if this was the Curtis Street Club, and
had then assisted his companion to alight. The lady
had called to the chauffeur that he need not either wait
or return for her. She had then gone into the club,
leaving the gentleman standing on the pavement. About
half-past nine a taxi had driven up, and the same gentleman
had got out and sent him, the caretaker, in to say
that Mr. Harrington was waiting for Miss Duke. The
young lady had presently come down with Miss
Lestrange, the head of the club. The three had talked
for a few minutes, and then the strangers had got into
the taxi and driven off.</p>

<p>“She’s a fine girl, Miss Duke,” French observed, as
he offered the caretaker a fill from his pouch. “I never
have seen her anything but smiling and pleasant all the
years I’ve known her.”</p>

<p>“That’s right,” the man returned, gloatingly loading
his pipe. “She’s a peach and no mistake.”</p>

<p>French nodded in a satisfied way.</p>

<p>“I should have laid a quid on it,” he declared, “that
she would have been as smiling and pleasant going away
as when she came. She always is.”</p>

<p>“Well, you’d ha’ pulled it off. But, lor, guv’nor, it’s
easy for lydies as wot ’as lots o’ money to be pleasant.
W’y shouldn’t they be?”</p>

<p>French rose.</p>

<p>“Ah, well, I expect they’ve their troubles like the rest
of us,” he said, slipping half a crown into the man’s eager
hand.</p>

<p>If the caretaker was correct and Miss Duke was in
good spirits on leaving the club, it followed that the
upset, whatever it had been, had not up to then taken
place. The next step, therefore, was obviously to find the
taxi in which the two young people had driven to Hampstead,
so as to learn whether anything unusual had
occurred during the journey.</p>

<p>He returned to the Yard, and sending for some members
of his staff, explained the point at issue. But, as he
would have been the first to admit, it was more by luck
than good guidance that on the very first day of the
inquiry he gained his information. Taximan James
Tomkins had driven the young couple on the evening in
question, and by five o’clock he was at the Yard awaiting
French’s pleasure.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</span><span epub:type="label">SYLVIA AND HARRINGTON</span></h2>

<p>Taximan Tomkins was a wizened-looking man with a
surly manner and the air of having a constant grievance,
but he was evidently overawed by the situation in which
he found himself, and seemed anxious to do his best to
answer the Inspector’s questions clearly.</p>

<p>He remembered the evening in question. He had been
hailed by a gentleman near Liverpool Street, and told to
drive to the Curtis Street Girls’ Club. There, after some
delay, they had picked up a young lady.</p>

<p>“What address did you get?” French asked.</p>

<p>“I don’t just remember,” the man said slowly
scratching his head. “Somewhere in Hampstead it was,
but I’m blest if I could tell you where.”</p>

<p>“The Cedars, Hampstead, perhaps?”</p>

<p>“That’s right guv’nor. That was it.”</p>

<p>“And the two started off together?”</p>

<p>“Yes, the other young lydie just saw them off.”</p>

<p>“Now tell me, did they meet any one else on the way
home?”</p>

<p>“Not while they were in the keb, they didn’t.”</p>

<p>“Or buy a paper, or stop for any purpose whatever?”</p>

<p>“They stopped and got out for a ’arf a mo’, but I
can’t say if it was to buy a paper.”</p>

<p>“Oh, they stopped, did they? Where was that?”</p>

<p>“In Holborn, just past the end of Hatton Garden.”</p>

<p>“What?” cried French, surprised out of his usual calm
superiority. “Tell me about that.”</p>

<p>The driver was stupid and suspicious, but in time the
details came out. The most direct route led along Holborn,
and he had taken it, but when he reached the point
in question the young man had hailed him through the
speaking tube. “Hold on a minute, driver,” he had
called. “Look sharp, please.” He had pulled over to
the kerb, but almost before he had come to a stand the
young man had jumped out and had hurried across the
street. The lady had then alighted, had told Tomkins
to wait, and had followed him. Tomkins had at first
feared he was going to lose his money, but after a couple
of minutes they had both returned and the girl had got
in. She had bidden good-night to her friend, and he,
Tomkins, had driven her off, leaving the man standing
on the pavement. On arrival at Hampstead, the lady
had paid him and entered the house. As far as the driver
had noticed neither of the young people was excited or
upset.</p>

<p>This information gave French cause for thought. On
obtaining Harrington’s statement on the morning after
the murder, he had imagined the young man was keeping
something back. And now he found that he had been
right. The young fellow had not mentioned the fact
that he had been within a few yards of the scene of the
crime at the time at which it had taken place. He had
stated that he had seen Sylvia home, and now it appeared
he had not done so, but had accompanied her only half-way.
French reminded himself with satisfaction that
his instinct on such a point was seldom far astray.</p>

<p>Furthermore, this news confirmed his growing suspicion
that Miss Duke also knew something about the affair.
It seemed too far-fetched a coincidence that this unexpected
stop near the scene of the crime, the mental upset
of both herself and Harrington, and the postponing of
the wedding, were unconnected with the tragedy. What
the connection might be he could not imagine but he
could not but believe it existed.</p>

<p>Determined to put the matter to the test without
further delay, he drove to the Hatton Garden office and
asked for Harrington. The young fellow received him
politely, though French thought he could sense an air of
strain in his manner. After the briefest greeting he came
directly to the point.</p>

<p>“Mr. Harrington,” he began, “I want to ask you one
question. In our conversation on the morning after the
crime you told me you had seen Miss Duke home on the
previous night. Why did you state this when you had
only seen her as far as Hatton Garden?”</p>

<p>The young man paled somewhat. He did not seem
taken aback, rather he gave French the impression of
feeling that he was now face to face with a crisis he had
long expected. He answered without hesitation and with
an evident attempt at dignity.</p>

<p>“I quite admit that I left Miss Duke near the end of
Hatton Garden, but I don’t admit that that was in any
way inconsistent with what I told you. Certainly I had
no intention of deceiving you.”</p>

<p>“I don’t appreciate your point, Mr. Harrington,”
French said sternly. “There is a very considerable
difference between seeing Miss Duke home and not
doing so.”</p>

<p>The young man flushed.</p>

<p>“I got a cab, drove to the club to meet Miss Duke,
picked her up, and accompanied her a considerable part
of the way home. I consider I was perfectly justified in
saying I saw her home.”</p>

<p>“Then our ideas of the meanings of words are strangely
different. I shall be glad if you will now tell me why
you both alighted from your taxi near this street, and
why you then allowed Miss Duke to proceed alone.”</p>

<p>This time Harrington seemed taken aback, but in a
moment he pulled himself together, and he answered
coherently enough:</p>

<p>“Certainly, there is no secret or mystery about it.
As we were driving along, Miss Duke suddenly pointed
to a tall girl in one of those glossy blue waterproofs, and
told me to stop the cab, as she wished to speak to her.
I shouted to the driver, and when he drew in to the kerb
I jumped out and ran after the girl. Unfortunately she
had disappeared, and though I searched round I could
not find her. When I came back I found that Miss Duke
had also alighted. I explained that I had missed her
friend, but she only said, ‘Never mind, it can’t be helped.’
She got into the cab again, and I was about to follow,
but she said No, that there was no use in taking me
farther out of my way, and that she would go home
alone.”</p>

<p>“Did you know the girl?”</p>

<p>“No, Miss Duke did not tell me who she was.”</p>

<p>“You might describe her.”</p>

<p>“I really could not, except that she was tall and wearing
the blue waterproof and carrying an umbrella. You see,
it was dark, and I only got a glimpse of her by the street
lamps. She was swinging along quickly towards Oxford
Street.”</p>

<p>“What did you do after Miss Duke drove off?”</p>

<p>“I went home, as I have already told you.”</p>

<p>And that was all Inspector French could get out of
him. In spite of all his questions, the young man stuck
absolutely to his story.</p>

<p>It was obvious to French that he must next get Miss
Duke’s statement, and with this in view he drove out to
The Cedars. He asked Harrington to accompany him,
so as to prevent his telephoning to the young lady to put
her on her guard, and on reaching the house he bade
him good-day with a somewhat sardonic smile.</p>

<p>Miss Duke was at home, and presently joined him in
the breakfast-room to which he had been shown.</p>

<p>She was a comely maiden, slightly given to plumpness,
perhaps, but pretty and kindly and wholesome looking,
a sight indeed to warm a man’s heart. But she looked
pale and worried, and French felt that her experience,
whatever it was, had hit her hard.</p>

<p>“I am sorry to trouble you, Miss Duke, but I am inquiring
into the recent crime at your father’s office, and
I find I require to ask you a few questions.”</p>

<p>As he spoke he watched her sharply, and he was intrigued
to notice a flash of apprehension leap into her
clear eyes.</p>

<p>“Won’t you sit down?” she invited, with a somewhat
strained smile.</p>

<p>He seated himself deliberately, continuing:</p>

<p>“My questions, I am afraid, are personal and impertinent,
but I have no option but to ask them. I will go on
to them at once, without further preamble. The first is,
What was it that upset you so greatly on the day after
the crime?”</p>

<p>She looked at him in evident surprise, and, he imagined,
in some relief also.</p>

<p>“Why, how can you ask?” she exclaimed. “Don’t
you think news like that was enough to upset any one?
You see, I had known poor Mr. Gething all my life, and
he had always been kind to me. I sincerely liked and
respected him, and to learn suddenly that he had been
murdered in that cold-blooded way, why, it was awful—<span class="it">awful</span>.
It certainly upset me, and I don’t see how it
could have done anything else.”</p>

<p>French nodded.</p>

<p>“Quite so, Miss Duke, I fully appreciate that. But I
venture to suggest that there was something more in
your mind than the tragic death of your old acquaintance;
something of more pressing and more personal interest.
Come now, Miss Duke, tell me what it was.”</p>

<p>The flash of apprehension returned to her eyes, and
then once again the look of relief.</p>

<p>“You mean the loss of the diamonds,” she answered
calmly. “I deplored that, of course, particularly on my
father’s account. But it was Mr. Gething’s death that
really, as you call it, upset me. The diamonds we could
do without, but we could not give the poor old man back
his life.”</p>

<p>“I did not mean the loss of the diamonds, Miss Duke.
I meant something more personal than that. I’m afraid
you must tell me about it.”</p>

<p>There was now no mistaking the girl’s uneasiness, and
French grew more and more hopeful that he was on the
track of something vital. But she was not giving anything
away.</p>

<p>“You must be mistaken,” she said in a lower tone.
“It was the news of the murder, and that alone, which
upset me.”</p>

<p>French shook his head.</p>

<p>“I would rather not take that answer from you. Please
reconsider it. Can you tell me nothing else?”</p>

<p>“Nothing. That is all I have to say.”</p>

<p>“Very well. I trust it may not be necessary to reopen
the matter. Now I want you to tell me why you postponed
your wedding with Mr. Harrington.”</p>

<p>Miss Duke flushed deeply.</p>

<p>“I will tell you nothing of the sort, Mr. Inspector!”
she declared with some show of anger. “What right have
you to ask me such a question? That is a matter between
Mr. Harrington and myself alone.”</p>

<p>“I hope you are right, Miss Duke, but I fear there is
a chance that you may be mistaken. Do you absolutely
decline to answer me?”</p>

<p>“Of course I do! No girl would answer such a
question. It is an impertinence to ask it.”</p>

<p>“In that case,” French said grimly, “I shall not press
the matter—for the present. Let me turn to another
subject. I want you next to tell me why you stopped at
Hatton Garden on your way home from the Curtis Street
Girls’ Club on the night of the crime.”</p>

<p>For a moment the girl seemed too much surprised to
reply, then she answered with a show of indignation:
“Really, Mr. French, this is too much! May I ask if
you suspect me of the crime?”</p>

<p>“Not of committing it,” French returned gravely,
“but,” he leaned forward and gazed keenly into her
eyes, “I do suspect you of knowing something about it.
Could you not, Miss Duke, if you chose, put me on the
track of the criminal?”</p>

<p>“Oh, no, no, no!” the girl cried piteously, motioning
with her hands as if to banish so terrible a thought from
her purview. “How can you suggest such a thing? It
is shameful and horrible!”</p>

<p>“Of course, Miss Duke, I can’t make you answer me
if you don’t want to. But I put it to you that it is worth
your while thinking twice before you attempt to keep
back information. Remember that if I am not satisfied,
you may be asked these same questions in court, and
then you will have to answer them whether you like it
or not. Now I ask you once again, Why did you leave
your taxi at Hatton Garden?”</p>

<p>“I think it is perfectly horrible of you to make all
these insinuations against me without any grounds whatever,”
she answered a little tremulously. “There is no
secret about why I stopped the taxi, and I have never
made any mystery about it. Why it should have any
importance I can’t imagine.” She paused, then with
a little gesture as if throwing discretion to the winds,
continued: “The fact is that as we were driving home
I suddenly saw a girl in the street whom I particularly
wished to meet. I stopped the cab and sent Mr. Harrington
after her, but he missed her.”</p>

<p>“Who was she?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know; that is why I was so anxious to see her.
I suppose you want the whole story?” She tossed her
head and went on without waiting for him to reply.
“Last summer I was coming up to town from Tonbridge,
where I had been staying, and this girl and I had a
carriage to ourselves. We began to talk, and became
quite friendly. When they came to collect the tickets
found I had lost mine. The man wanted to take my
name, but the girl insisted on lending me the money to
pay my fare. I wrote down her name and address on a
scrap of paper so that I could return the money to her,
but when I reached home I found I had lost the paper,
and I stupidly had not committed the address to memory.
I could not send her the money, and I don’t know what
she must have thought of me. You can understand,
therefore, my anxiety to meet her when I saw her from
the cab.”</p>

<p>“But why did you pay your fare a second time? You
must have known that all you had to do was to give
your name and address to the ticket collector.”</p>

<p>“I suppose I did,” she admitted, “but I preferred to
pay rather than have the trouble of explanations and
probably letters to the head office.”</p>

<p>Inspector French was chagrined. Instinctively he
doubted the story, but Miss Duke had answered his
question in a reasonable way, and if she stuck to the
tale, he did not see how he could break her down. After
this lapse of time it would be quite impossible to obtain
confirmation or otherwise of the details, especially as
Miss Duke’s hypothetical fellow-traveller could not be
produced. He pointedly made no comment on the statement
as he resumed his investigation.</p>

<p>“To whom did you telephone after breakfast on the
morning after the murder?”</p>

<p>That Miss Duke was amazed at the extent of the
Inspector’s knowledge was evident, but she answered
immediately.</p>

<p>“To Mr. Harrington.”</p>

<p>“To say what?”</p>

<p>“If I must repeat my private conversations to my
future husband, it was to ask him to meet me at once as
I had something to say to him.”</p>

<p>“What was the nature of the communication?”</p>

<p>Miss Duke flushed again.</p>

<p>“Really,” she exclaimed, “I protest against this. What
possible connection can our private affairs have with
your business?”</p>

<p>“It is your own fault, Miss Duke. You are not telling
me the whole truth, and I am therefore suspicious. I
want to find out what you are keeping back, and I may
tell you that I am going to do so. What did you want to
see Mr. Harrington about so urgently?”</p>

<p>The girl seemed terribly distressed.</p>

<p>“If you will have it, it was about the postponement of
the wedding,” she said in a low voice. “You understand,
we had been discussing the matter on the night before,
when no conclusion had been come to. But on sleeping
on it I had made up my mind in favour of the postponement,
and I wanted to tell Mr. Harrington at once.”</p>

<p>“But why was it so urgent? Could you not have waited
until later in the day?”</p>

<p>“I felt I couldn’t wait. It was so important to us
both.”</p>

<p>“And you refuse to give the reason of the postponement?”</p>

<p>“I do. You have no right to ask it.”</p>

<p>“You did meet Mr. Harrington that morning?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Where?”</p>

<p>“At the entrance to the Finchley Road tube station.”</p>

<p>“Why did you not tell him to call on you instead of
yourself going out?”</p>

<p>“In order as far as possible to prevent him from being
late at the office.”</p>

<p>French suddenly remembered that Harrington had
entered the office during his visit there on the morning
after the crime, and had apologised to Mr. Duke for his
late arrival. It had not struck French at the time, but
now he recalled that when Mr. Duke had spoken to him
of the tragedy he had stated he had heard of it already.
Where? French now wondered. Was it merely from
the morning paper, or <span class="it">was it from Miss Duke</span>? Or, still
more pressing question, had they both known of it on
the previous night?</p>

<p>Suddenly a possible theory flashed into his mind, and
he sat for a few moments in silence, considering it. Suppose
that on the stop near Hatton Garden, Harrington
had mentioned that he wanted for some purpose to call
at the office, or suppose Miss Duke had asked him to do
so, and that he had left her for that purpose. Next
morning at breakfast she hears from her father of the
murder, and is at once panic stricken about Harrington.
She sees that if he admits his visit he may be suspected
of the crime, and she sends for him before he reaches
the office in order to warn him. Or could it be that,
knowing of this hypothetical visit, Miss Duke had herself
suspected Harrington, and had sent for him at the
earliest possible moment to hear his explanation?
French was not satisfied with these suggestions, but
he felt more than ever certain these two young people
had conspired to hide vital information.</p>

<p>He left the house profoundly dissatisfied, and returning
to Hatton Garden, had another interview with Harrington.
He pressed the young man as hard as he could,
taxing him directly with having been present in the office
on the fatal night. This Harrington strenuously denied,
and French could get nothing further out of him. He
went again into the man’s movements on the night of
the crime, but without getting any further light thrown
thereon. Harrington said he had walked to his rooms
after parting from Miss Duke, but no direct evidence
was forthcoming as to the truth or falsehood of his
statement.</p>

<p>Suddenly another theory leaped into the detective’s
mind, but after careful thought he felt he must reject it.
If Vanderkemp were guilty, the whole of these mysterious
happenings would be cleared up. Harrington was under
a deep debt of gratitude to his uncle, and appeared attached
to him. Whether Miss Duke shared, or was
endeavouring to share, his feelings, French did not know,
but it was certainly possible. Suppose he and Miss Duke,
driving home from the East End, had seen Vanderkemp
at the end of Hatton Garden. Suppose, moreover,
something in the man’s appearance had attracted their
attention, something furtive or evil, something unlike his
usual expression. This, coupled with the fact that the
traveller was supposed to be in Amsterdam, might easily
have impelled Harrington to stop the cab to have a word
with his uncle. But by the time he had reached the pavement,
Vanderkemp had disappeared. The incident would
have been dismissed by both as trivial, until next morning
at breakfast, when Miss Duke learned of the murder,
its significance would become apparent. She might not
believe the traveller guilty, but she would recognise that
the circumstances required some explanation. Immediately
the paramount importance of communicating with
Harrington would appear, lest he might incautiously
mention that he had seen his uncle virtually on the scene
of the murder. She would instantly telephone in the hope
of catching her lover before he left his rooms. She could
not give her message over the telephone, so she would
arrange the meeting. She would instruct Harrington to
return to her as soon as possible, so as to hear what had
taken place at the office. He would therefore call in the
afternoon, and at the interview they would decide that
in the uncertainty of the situation, the wedding should
be postponed. The supposed flight of Vanderkemp would
confirm their suspicions, and would account for the perturbed
state of mind which both exhibited.</p>

<p>The theory was so fascinating that next day French
once more interviewed Harrington and Miss Duke and
put the question directly to them, Had they seen Vanderkemp?
But both denied having done so, and baffled
and irritated, he wrathfully watched another promising
clue petering out before him. He had the two young
people shadowed, and spent a considerable time in investigating
their past life, but without result.</p>

<p>So the days began to draw out into weeks, and the
solution of the mystery seemed as far off as ever.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</span><span epub:type="label">MRS. ROOT OF PITTSBURG</span></h2>

<p>One morning about six weeks after the murder in Hatton
Garden, Inspector French was summoned to the
presence of his chief.</p>

<p>“Look here, French,” he was greeted, “you’ve been
at that Gething case long enough. I can’t have any
more time wasted on it. What are you doing now?”</p>

<p>French, his usual cheery confidence sadly deflated,
hesitatingly admitted that at the moment he was not
doing very much, embellishing this in the course of a
somewhat painful conversation with the further information
that he was doing nothing whatever, and that he
was severally up against it and down and out.</p>

<p>“I thought so,” the chief declared. “In that case
you’ll have time to go and see Williams &amp; Davies, of
Cockspur Street, the money-lenders. I have just had
a ’phone from them, and they say that some diamonds
recently came into their possession which they are told
resemble those stolen from Duke &amp; Peabody. You might
look into the matter.”</p>

<p>It was a rejuvenated French that fifteen minutes later
ascended the stairs of Straker House, Cockspur Street,
to the office of Messrs. Williams &amp; Davies. Gone was the
lassitude and the dejection and the weary brooding look,
and instead there was once again the old cheery optimism,
the smiling self-confidence, the springy step. He pushed
open a swing door, and with an air of fatherly benevolence
demanded of a diminutive office boy if Mr. Williams
was in.</p>

<p>The senior partner was disengaged, and two minutes
later French was ushered into a small, rather dark office,
in which sat a tall, well-groomed man with graying hair,
and a precise, somewhat pedantic manner.</p>

<p>“They ’phoned me from the Yard that you were
coming across, Inspector,” he announced, when French
had introduced himself. “I can only say I hope I have
not brought you on a wild goose chase. But the affair
should certainly be looked into.”</p>

<p>“I have not heard the circumstances yet, sir,” French
reminded him. “I shall naturally be glad if you can
give me some helpful information.”</p>

<p>“I did not care to give details over the ’phone,” Mr.
Williams explained. “You can never tell who overhears
you. I once heard a girl declining what was evidently
a proposal of marriage. The circumstances in this case
are very simple. About six weeks ago a lady, giving her
name as Mrs. Chauncey S. Root, and evidently an
American, called and asked if she could see one of the
principals of my firm. She was shown in to me, and she
explained that she was the wife of a Mr. Chauncey S.
Root, a rich steel manufacturer of Pittsburg. She had
just crossed by the <span class="it">Olympic</span> for a holiday in Europe,
reaching London on the previous evening. She said a
series of misfortunes had brought her into a somewhat
awkward predicament, and she wondered if I could do
anything to assist her. In the first place she had been
foolish enough to get into a gambling set on the way
over, and had lost, as she expressed it, ‘the hell of a lot
of money.’ She spoke in a very racy and American way,
but she gave me the impression of being thoroughly competent
and efficient. Her losses ran into several hundred
pounds—she did not tell me the exact amount—but all
her ready money was gone and in addition she had given
several I.O.U.’s. This, however, she would not have
thought twice about, as she had letters of credit for
many times the amount, had it not been that a further
calamity befell her in Southampton. There, in the crush
on the quays, the small despatch case in which she kept
her ready money and papers had been snatched from her,
and she was left practically penniless, as well as without
her letters of credit and her passport or other means of
identification. She had, of course, reported the matter to
the police authorities, but they had rather shaken their
heads over it, though promising to do everything possible.
She had had, indeed, to borrow a twenty-pound note from
one of her travelling acquaintances to get her to London,
and now she was practically without money at all. She
wished, therefore, to borrow £3000, which would enable
her to pay her gambling debts and to carry on in London
until fresh letters of credit could be sent. Fortunately,
she had with her a collection of unmounted diamonds,
which she intended to have set by London jewellers, of
whose skill she had heard great accounts. These diamonds
she proposed to deposit as security, and she would
agree to pay whatever rate of interest was customary.
She asked me if my firm would be prepared to lend the
money on these terms.”</p>

<p>“Why did she not cable to her husband?”</p>

<p>“I asked her that, and she explained that she did not
wish to tell Mr. Root, as he had an inveterate dislike to
gambling, and they had had several disagreements about
her betting proclivities. In fact, relations had been
seriously strained until she had promised amendment,
and a confession might easily lead to a serious breach.
She could not, either, attribute the loss to the theft, as
it ran to so great a figure that she could not possibly
be carrying the amount in her despatch case. She said
she would prefer to borrow the money until she could
write to her man of business to realise some of her own
stocks.</p>

<p>“I said that her proposition, as such, was acceptable,
as we frequently took stones and jewellery as security
for loans, but that as she was a stranger to us, before
we could do business we should obviously require some
evidence of her <span class="it">bona fides</span>. She replied that that was
all right, that she quite recognised that owing to the
loss of her papers and particularly of her passport something
of the kind would be necessary. She said we
could make what inquiries we liked, provided only we
were quick about them, for she wanted the money as
soon as possible. She asked how long we should take, and
when I said twenty-four hours, she admitted that was
reasonable. She suggested that if we did business we
should take the stones to be valued to one of the best-known
London jewellers. I agreed to this, and rang
up Mr. Stronge, of Hurst &amp; Stronge, of Bond Street,
to ask him if he would undertake the valuation. He is,
as you probably know, one of the most famous experts
in the world. He consented, and I settled with him the
amount of his fee. Finally it was arranged that, provided
our inquiries were satisfactory, I should meet Mrs. Root
at Hurst &amp; Stronge’s at half-past ten on the following
morning, she with the stones and I with my cheque book.
I was to pay her five-sixths of the value of the diamonds.
She said she expected to pay back the loan in about four
weeks, and suitable terms of interest were arranged.”</p>

<p>Mr. Williams paused and glanced at his companion,
as though to assure himself that his story was receiving
the attention he evidently felt it deserved. But French’s
air of thrilled interest left him no room for doubt, and
he continued:</p>

<p>“I made my inquiries, and all appeared satisfactory.
I called up Mrs. Root at the Savoy, told her I was
prepared to deal, and at the hour named met her at
Hurst &amp; Stronge’s. Mr. Stronge took us to his private
room, and there Mrs. Root produced a bag of stones,
mostly diamonds, though there were a few emeralds and
a large ruby, all unmounted. There were sixteen stones
ranging in value from £40 to £400, but averaging about
£200 or £220. Mr. Stronge valued them very carefully,
and after a long wait we got his opinion. The whole
were worth about £3300, and in accordance with our
bargain I proposed to hand Mrs. Root a cheque for
£2750. She admitted the correctness of this, but said
she wanted the £3000, and after some conversation I
agreed to meet her wishes and filled the cheque for the
latter sum. She then objected that no bank would pay
her without inquiring as to her identity, which would
mean another delay, and asked me if I would go with
her to the bank to certify that she was the person for
whom I intended the money. I agreed to this, and we
went to the Piccadilly branch of the London and Counties
Bank. There we saw the manager, and there I left her.
I returned here and lodged the stones in my safe.”</p>

<p>“The manager took your identification, I suppose?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes. I know him personally and there was no
difficulty. That ended the matter as far as I was concerned,
and for four weeks I thought no more of it. But
as the fifth and sixth week passed and the lady made
no sign, I began to wonder. I telephoned to the Savoy,
but it appeared she had left on the day of our deal.
I assumed, however, that she was on the Continent, and
no suspicion that all was not right occurred to me.”</p>

<p>“Then what roused your suspicion?”</p>

<p>“I am coming to that,” Mr. Williams answered in a
slightly frigid tone. “This morning I happened to show
the stones—without saying how they came into my
possession, of course—to a personal friend of my own,
a diamond merchant named Sproule, who had called with
me on other business. When he saw them he grew very
much excited, and asked me where I had got them from.
I pressed him for an explanation, and he said they fitted
the description circulated of those stolen from Messrs.
Duke &amp; Peabody. He was emphatic that I should inform
the firm, but I thought it better to ring you up instead.”</p>

<p>“Very wise, sir,” French approved. “That was certainly
your proper course. Now, I take it the first thing
we have to do is to see if your friend, Mr. Sproule, is
correct in his supposition. I have a list of the missing
stones in my pocket, but I don’t know that I’m expert
enough to identify them. I think we’ll have Mr. Duke
over. May I use your ’phone?”</p>

<p>Mr. Duke was naturally eager to learn details of the
new development, and in less than half an hour he joined
the others in Mr. Williams’s office. French explained the
situation, ending up, “Now we want you, Mr. Duke, to
tell us if these were among the stones you lost.”</p>

<p>The diamond merchant, obviously much excited, began
at once to make his examination. He inspected the
stones minutely through a lens, weighed them on a
delicate balance he had brought, and put them to other
tests which greatly interested his companions. As he
put each down he gave his judgment. One after another
were identified. All were among those stolen from him.
They were the sixteen smallest and least valuable stones
of the collection.</p>

<p>The fact was learned by the three men with very
different emotions. Mr. Duke’s gain was Mr. Williams’s
loss, and resulting satisfaction and consternation showed
on their respective faces, while French’s countenance
wore an expression of the liveliest delight, not unmixed
with mystification.</p>

<p>“Good heavens!” Mr. Williams cried, his voice
trembling with agitation and excitement. “Then I’ve
been swindled! Swindled out of three thousand pounds!”
He glared at the Inspector as if he were at fault. “I
suppose,” he continued, “that if this gentleman establishes
his claim, the loss will fall on me? God knows,
I can ill afford it.”</p>

<p>“We shall hope not, sir,” French said sympathetically.
“We shall hope that with luck you’ll recover your
money. But we must not waste any more time. I shall
start by going to the bank to see if all the money has been
withdrawn. I’d be obliged, Mr. Williams, if you would
come also. I’ll keep you advised, Mr. Duke, how things
go on, and of course you’ll get back your stones after
the usual formalities have been carried out.”</p>

<p>Mr. Williams had recovered his composure, and, the
gems having been locked in his safe, the three men left
the office and descended to the street. There French
said good-day to Mr. Duke, who somewhat reluctantly
took his leave, the other two continuing to the bank.
After a few moments’ wait they were shown into the
manager’s room.</p>

<p>“I am afraid, Mr. Scarlett, I have had a serious misfortune,”
Mr. Williams began, almost before they were
seated. “I have just learned that I have been swindled
out of £3000. This is Inspector French of Scotland
Yard, and we both want your help in the matter.”</p>

<p>Mr. Scarlett, a well-groomed, middle-aged gentleman
of fashionable appearance and suave manners, looked
suitably concerned. He shook hands with French, and
expressed his commiseration with his client’s loss in a
few easy words, declaring also his desire to be of service.</p>

<p>“Do you remember,” Mr. Williams went on eagerly,
“my coming to see you one morning about six weeks
ago with a lady whom I introduced as Mrs. Root, of
Pittsburg, U. S. A.? She held my cheque for £3000, and
I came to introduce her to you.”</p>

<p>The manager recalled the incident.</p>

<p>“That money was a loan, for which she deposited
with me a number of diamonds. The diamonds were
valued by Mr. Stronge of Hurst &amp; Stronge’s, and I
gave her less than their value. I thought I had taken
all reasonable precautions, but now,” Mr. Williams made
a faint gesture of despair, “now it seems that they were
stolen.”</p>

<p>“Stolen?” Mr. Scarlett repeated in a shocked voice.
“My dear sir! Allow me to say how extremely sorry I
am to have to tell you that I fear your discovery has
come too late. Your cheque had been paid practically in
full.”</p>

<p>Mr. Williams gave a little groan, though he had evidently
been expecting the bad news. He would have
spoken, but French broke in with, “Is that so, sir? That
is really what we came to ask. Now I want you please
to give me as detailed an account of the whole business
as you can.”</p>

<p>“I will do so, of course,” Mr. Scarlett returned, “but
I fear my story will not help you much.” He raised his
desk telephone. “Ask Mr. Plenteous to come here,” he
directed, and when a young, fair-haired man had entered
he resumed, “This is Mr. Plenteous who carried out the
details of the transaction. As Mr. Williams has said, he
and the lady called on me,” he turned over the leaves
of a diary, “about midday on Thursday, 26th November.
He introduced the lady as a Mrs. Chauncey S. Root, of
Pittsburg, and stated he had called to certify that she
was the person referred to in a cheque he had made out.
She produced a cheque for £3000, and Mr. Williams
identified it as his. She thanked him and he withdrew.
She then said that she wished to open a temporary
account, and that she would like cash for £1500, and to
lodge the remainder. I sent for Mr. Plenteous, and
asked him to arrange the matter, and he showed the lady
out to his counter. Next day the balance was withdrawn
except for a few shillings, which I believe we still hold.
Is not that correct, Plenteous?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir,” the fair-haired young man answered, “quite
correct. I can turn you up the exact balance in a
moment.”</p>

<p>“Presently, thank you, Mr. Plenteous,” French interposed.
“In the meantime perhaps you would tell us what
took place between you and the lady after you left this
office.”</p>

<p>After a glance at his chief, the clerk answered:</p>

<p>“Mrs. Root handed me the cheque for £3000, and
said she wished to lodge half. I filled the customary
forms, took her signature, and gave her a passbook, all
in the usual way. Then she told me she would like the
other £1500 cashed in notes of small value. She said
she was a stranger to London, but that already she had
discovered the difficulty of changing Bank of England
notes. Being short of ready money, she had proffered a
twenty-pound note in a shop. It was refused, and on
asking for change in a bank which happened to be next
door, the cashier politely informed her he was not permitted
to change notes for strangers. She had, indeed,
to go back to her hotel before she could get it done. She
said she therefore wanted nothing larger than ten pounds,
and at her further request I counted her out a hundred
tens and a hundred fives. She stowed them away in a
despatch case she was carrying. I pointed out that that
was not a very safe way to carry so large a sum, but she
laughed and said she guessed it was all right, that no one
would know she had money in it. She said good-day and
went out, and that was the last I saw of her.”</p>

<p>“You noticed nothing in any way suspicious about
her manner or actions?”</p>

<p>“Nothing whatever.”</p>

<p>“You say the lodgment was subsequently withdrawn?
You might tell me about that.”</p>

<p>“It was withdrawn in the sense that cheques were
issued for almost the whole amount. The lady did not
herself call again, nor was the account closed. There is
still a small balance.”</p>

<p>French nodded.</p>

<p>“Yes, I understood you to say so. Could you let me
see the ledger, and also the cheques that were issued?”</p>

<p>In a few seconds the clerk returned with a ponderous
tome, which he opened at the name of Mrs. Helen Sadie
Root. The account possessed but few items. On the
debit side there was but the single entry of £1500, but
on the other side there were six entries, varying from
£210 10s. to £295, and totalling £1495 7s. 9d. Six cancelled
cheques corresponded with the entries. As French
examined these, he was interested to see that all were
made out on fashionable London jewellers.</p>

<p>“Can you lend me these?” he asked, pointing to the
cheques.</p>

<p>The clerk hesitated, but Mr. Scarlett intervened.</p>

<p>“Certainly,” he answered readily, “but you will have
to give us a receipt for our auditors.”</p>

<p>This was soon arranged, and after French had asked
a few more questions, he and Mr. Williams left the bank.</p>

<p>“Now,” he said briskly, before his companion could
frame a remark, “I am going round to these six jewellers,
but first I want some further information from you.
Shall we go back to your office?”</p>

<p>Mr. Williams assented eagerly. He had lost his air of
detached precision, and, like a somewhat spoiled child,
plied the other with questions as to his probable chances
of success. French answered in his usual cheery,
optimistic way, and it was not until they were once more
seated in Mr. Williams’s sanctum that he dropped his
air of fatherly benevolence and became once more the
shrewd and competent officer of Scotland Yard.</p>

<p>“In the first place,” he began, as he took out his notebook,
“I want <span class="it">your</span> description of the lady. I gather
she was a good-looking woman, attractive both in appearance
and manner. Did you find her so?”</p>

<p>Mr. Williams hesitated.</p>

<p>“Well, yes, I did,” he admitted, somewhat apologetically,
as French thought. “She certainly had a way with
her—something different from my usual clients. From
her manner I never should have suspected she was other
than all right.”</p>

<p>“Most women crooks are attractive looking,” French
declared smoothly. “It’s part of their stock in trade.
Just let me have as detailed a description of her as you
can.”</p>

<p>It seemed she was of middle height, and dark, very
dark as to hair and eyelashes, but less so as to eyes. They
were rather a golden shade of brown. She had a somewhat
retroussé nose, and a tiny mouth set in an oval
face, with a complexion of extreme, but healthy, pallor.
She wore her hair low over her ears, and her smile
revealed an unexpected dimple. Mr. Williams had remarked
these details so thoroughly that French smiled
inwardly, as he solemnly noted them in his book. The
money-lender had not particularly observed what she was
wearing, but this did not matter as Mr. Scarlett had,
and a detailed description of her dress was already
entered up.</p>

<p>“Tell me next, please, Mr. Williams, what identification
the lady gave of herself, and what inquiries you
made to test her statement. She had lost her passport?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I told you how, or rather I told you what she
said about it. She gave me her card, and showed me the
envelopes of several letters addressed to her at Pittsburg.
She also showed me some photographs of groups in which
she appeared which had been taken on board the <span class="it">Olympic</span>,
as well as a dinner menu dated for the third day out.
She explained that her return ticket had been stolen
with the passport, so that she could not let me see it.”</p>

<p>“Not very conclusive, I’m afraid,” French commented.
“All that evidence might have been faked.”</p>

<p>“I quite see that, and saw it at the time,” declared
the money-lender. “But I did not rest there. I applied
to Dashford’s, you know, the private inquiry people. I
asked them to cable their agents in Pittsburg for a
description of Mrs. Root, and to know if she had left
for England on the <span class="it">Olympic</span>. There is the reply.”</p>

<p>He took a paper from a file and handed it across. It
was headed, “J. T. Dashford &amp; Co., Private Inquiry
Agents,” and read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“<span class="sc">Dear Sir,</span></p>

<p class="line0" style="text-align:left;margin-left:8em;">“<span class="sc">Mrs. Chauncey S. Root.</span></p>

<p>“In reply to your inquiry of yesterday, we beg to
inform you that we have cabled our agents in Pittsburg
on the matter in question, and have received the
following reply:</p>

<p>“ ‘Chauncey S. Root, partner local steel firm,
wealthy, wife handsome, height middle, hair dark, complexion
pale, face oval, mouth small, manner bright
and attractive. Left for Europe by <span class="it">Olympic</span>. Family
O. K.’</p>

<p>“We trust this information will meet your requirements.</p>

<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:8em;">“Yours faithfully,</p>
<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:3em;">“<span class="sc">J. T. Dashford &amp; Co.</span>,</p>
<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:2em;">“M.S.”</p>

</div>

<p>French whistled thoughtfully.</p>

<p>“That seems right enough,” he said slowly. “I know
something about Dashford’s people, and they are reliable
enough about a thing like this. It’s beginning to look
like impersonation.”</p>

<p>“Ah,” Mr. Williams ejaculated. “Impersonation!
I hadn’t thought of that.” He paused in his turn, then
continued, “But yet I don’t see how it could be. I didn’t
stop with an application to Dashford’s. I rang up the
White Star offices, and they told me there that Mrs. Root
had actually made the journey. I also rang up the Savoy,
and they told me there that she had arrived at the hour
she had told me, with trunks bearing <span class="it">Olympic</span> labels.
Finally, to make the matter, as I thought, sure, I ’phoned
the Southampton police and found out from them that
the story of the stolen despatch case was true. It had
happened just as Mrs. Root described. When I got all
this information I felt absolutely satisfied.”</p>

<p>“I’m not surprised at that, sir,” French admitted. “It
would have satisfied most people. You see, it’s quite
different with us now, because our suspicions have been
aroused. There was nothing in the circumstances of this
lady’s call to make you doubt her story. I quite sympathise
with you, though I’m afraid that doesn’t help the
situation much. . . . But you see now, of course, that
none of the information you collected is really conclusive.
I have no doubt that there is a Mrs. Chauncey S. Root of
Pittsburg who travelled to Europe in the <span class="it">Olympic</span>, and
that, generally speaking, she resembles your friend, but
I very gravely doubt that she was the lady who negotiated
the loan. You see, the real identifications, the passport,
the return ticket, on which her name would be inscribed,
were missing. Moreover, she refused to allow Mr. Root
to be consulted. No, I think we may take it that the
woman who came here was not Mrs. Root. But, on the
other hand, she must either have been acquainted with
Mrs. Root personally or have known a thundering lot
about her. How does that strike you, sir?”</p>

<p>“It sounds right, it certainly sounds right, Inspector.
I fear it must be as you say. But if so, what chance is
there of getting back my money?”</p>

<p>French shook his head.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid the prospects are not very rosy,” he admitted.
“But you never know. We’ll try to get our
hands on the woman, of course, and we may find she
has not spent the money. Now, sir, if there is nothing
more than you can tell me, I think I shall get along to
the Savoy and to those shops where she paid the cheques.”</p>

<p>Inspector French walked slowly down Cockspur Street,
his brain bemused by this unexpected development. The
impersonation of Mrs. Root was easy—or, at least, comparatively
easy—to understand. He could see that it
would present no serious difficulties to a resourceful
woman, though the application to the Southampton
police was certainly staggering. But what he could not
form the slightest idea of was how this woman could
possibly have got hold of Mr. Duke’s diamonds. The
impersonation must have actually been arranged <span class="it">before</span>
the robbery took place, and if this were so, it pointed to
a much more far-reaching crime than he had had any conception
of. And there must have been more than one
in it, too—unless this mysterious woman had actually
committed the murder, which he found hard to believe.
He smiled with satisfaction as he thought of the vistas
of possible information which were opening out before
him, and by which he might hope to retrieve the loss of
prestige which he had suffered.</p>

<p>Suddenly he thought of Miss Duke. Was there a
connection between her and this mysterious woman?
Was Mrs. Root the woman in the waterproof? Was she
Miss Duke herself? Here were far-reaching questions.
As he considered them, he saw that his work for the next
few days was cut out for him.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</span><span epub:type="label">SOME PAIRS OF BLANKETS</span></h2>

<p>During Inspector French’s brief lunch hour he continued
turning over in his mind the immediate problem
which Mr. Williams’s story had raised for him, namely,
at what point he had best attack his new inquiry.</p>

<p>The facts postulated a good deal of obvious detailed
investigation, and he felt he should carry this through
in his usual systematic way before attempting to evolve
a comprehensive theory of the crime. He had first to
learn what he could of the mysterious Mrs. Root, and in
this connection he foresaw inquiries at Pittsburg, from
the White Star people, from the Southampton police at
the Savoy, and at the various firms of jewellers to whom
the cheques had been made out. He had, if possible, to
find the lady, or her impersonator. These things accomplished,
he could turn his attention to an attempt to
connect the person found with Miss Duke, or at all events
with Mr. Duke’s jewels, and subsequently with the murder
of Charles Gething.</p>

<p>By the time his meal was ended he had decided that
he would commence operations at the Savoy, and ten
minutes later he turned into the courtyard, and making
his way to the office, inquired for the manager.</p>

<p>In due course he explained his business to the great
man, but the latter shook his head when he heard what
was required of him, and asked French for suggestions
as to how he could help.</p>

<p>“First I should like to see the register,” French
explained.</p>

<p>“That, at least, is easily done.”</p>

<p>The manager led the way to the office and introduced
French to the radiant young woman who presided at the
reception counter. Then turning over the pages of the
register, he presently exclaimed, “That looks like it,
Inspector, I fancy.”</p>

<p>The entry read: “Nov. 24. Mrs. Chauncey S. Root,
Pittsburg, U. S. A. 137.”</p>

<p>French drew out the cheques he had obtained from
Mr. Scarlett and carefully compared the signatures.
“That’s it,” he declared. “There’s not a doubt those
are in the same handwriting. Now the question is, Can
this young lady remember the woman?”</p>

<p>The clerk hesitated.</p>

<p>“We had a lot of Americans in that day,” she said
slowly, as she ran her eyes down the list of names. “It
is not easy to keep track of them all. And this is six
weeks ago.” She paused again, then shook her head.
“I’m afraid I can’t just place her.”</p>

<p>“It was the day the <span class="it">Olympic</span> got to Southampton,”
French prompted. “There would no doubt have been
a number of people off the steamer special.” He glanced
once more at the book. “See, here is a crowd of Americans
all together. New York, Boston, New York, New
York, Philadelphia, and so on. That represents the
special. But——” He paused and ran his finger down
the column. “Now, this is really rather interesting. Mrs.
Root’s name is not among them. Here it is, down near
the end of the list. That means that she came in late
in the evening, doesn’t it? Does that help you at all,
Miss Pearson?” He waited, but the girl not replying, he
continued, “Or the room? Does No. 137 bring anything
to your mind?”</p>

<p>The girl shook her pretty head.</p>

<p>“Turn up the account, Miss Pearson,” the manager
suggested.</p>

<p>The girl produced another huge book, and all three
went through the items. Mrs. Root, it appeared, had
paid for the rooms—No. 137 was a suite consisting of
one bedroom, bathroom and sitting-room—for the three
nights, the 24th, 25th, and 26th of November. She had
had seven meals in the hotel, dinner on the night of
arrival, and breakfast, lunch, and dinner on the next
two days. All these meals she had had served in her
private room.</p>

<p>“Avoiding publicity,” French thought, continuing
aloud, “Then she didn’t breakfast on the morning she
left?”</p>

<p>At his remark Miss Pearson gave an exclamation.</p>

<p>“I remember her now,” she cried. “It was your
saying that brought her to my mind. No, she didn’t
breakfast the morning you mean because she left on
the previous night. I remember the whole circumstances
now. She came in on the night”—she glanced at the
register—“of the 24th—pretty late—it was between
seven and eight, I should think—and asked for a suite
for three or four weeks. She was dark-haired and pale
complexion and very American in her speech. I fixed
her up with No. 137, and she said she wanted dinner
sent up to her room. Two evenings later, shortly before
eight o’clock, she came back to the office and said she
had had an urgent wire from Paris, and that she
had to go over that night. She hoped to be back in
about a week, but she would not keep the rooms on, as
she was not certain of her plans. I made out the bill,
and what brings the thing back to my mind is that I had
to charge her for that night in accordance with our rule.
She didn’t seem to mind, the way some people do in such
a case. She left then, and I never saw her since.”</p>

<p>This being all the pretty clerk could tell him, French
asked next to see the chambermaid who had attended
No. 137 on the night in question.</p>

<p>From this woman he at first learned nothing. For a
quarter of an hour he prompted fruitlessly, then, just as
in the case of the clerk, a chance word brought a ray of
light. Asked if she could remember having seen luggage
with <span class="it">Olympic</span> labels and the name Mrs. Root, she suddenly
admitted that she could. Her attention had been
attracted by the name Root, as she had been reading
in the papers of a distinguished American of the same
name, and she had wondered if the owner of the luggage
was any connection. She remembered the luggage distinctly.
There were two big, new-looking American
trunks, labelled on steamer labels, Mrs. Something Root.
Yes, she thought it was Chauncey. Something like that
anyway, some queer, foreign name that only an American
would bear. But though she remembered the luggage,
the chambermaid could not recall anything about the lady
herself.</p>

<p>After fruitlessly interrogating several other of the
hotel servants, French retreated into a deserted corner
of the lounge and set himself to think the thing out. And
presently it occurred to him that the trunks might represent
a clue. Did their removal not involve a taxi, and
if so, could he find it?</p>

<p>He went back to the head porter to make inquiries.
Vehicles were usually obtained from the rank in the street
adjoining. Of course it frequently happened that a driver
looking for a fare would pass at the critical moment and
be employed, but seven out of ten were obtained from
the rank.</p>

<p>French left the hotel, and, sauntering down to the cab
rank, engaged the driver of the leading car in conversation.
All the taxis on the rank, the man stated, were
the property of one firm, Metropolitan Transport, Ltd.
The men returned the runs they had made on their daily
journals, and French could, if he chose to apply to the
office in Victoria Street, learn all there was to be known
about it.</p>

<p>French did choose, and a quarter of an hour later was
in conversation with the manager. But that gentleman
was dubious that he could supply the desired information.
It was true they kept a pretty complete record of the
runs made and these had to balance with the readings
of the meters and with the money handed in, but obviously
no note was made of the names or descriptions of the
fares. He could find out if a car had gone from the
Savoy to Victoria about 7.45 p.m. on the night of the 26th
November, but he could not say who might have travelled
in it.</p>

<p>“If you could let me have a note of the cars which left
the hotel between 7.40 and 8.10, irrespective of their
destinations, I should be obliged,” French declared. “I
could see all the drivers, and possibly some one of them
might remember the woman.”</p>

<p>“I can give you that,” the manager assented, “but
it will take a little time to get out.” He rang for a clerk
and gave the necessary instruction, then leaned back in
his chair and went on conversationally, “What’s the
trouble? Is it indiscreet to ask?”</p>

<p>French smiled benevolently.</p>

<p>“Certainly not,” he assured the other. “I’ll tell you
the whole thing. We believe that the lady I’m after is
a crook—a diamond thief. She gave out that she was
the wife of a wealthy American steel magnate, but we
believe she’s no more that than you are. She left the
hotel that night with two trunks and some small luggage,
to go to Paris by the 8.20 from Victoria, and has vanished.
I’m trying now to trace her.”</p>

<p>The manager seemed interested.</p>

<p>“Well,” he said, “that’s a useful hint you have given
just now. Our drivers record the luggage, that is, outside
luggage for which there is a charge. It’ll narrow the
thing down a bit if we’ve only to count vehicles with two
packages outside.”</p>

<p>“That’s a point,” French admitted, “and a good one.
But I only know that there were two large trunks besides
hand luggage. There might have been more than two
packages outside.”</p>

<p>“It’s not likely. If there was only one lady she would
have taken the hand stuff in with her. Ah, here’s the
list.”</p>

<p>From the tabulated sheet handed to the manager, it
appeared that between the hours of 7.40 and 8.10 on the
night in question, no less than twenty-eight taxis had left
the Savoy. Of these, twenty had gone to theatres. Of
the remaining eight, two had gone to Euston, one to
King’s Cross, one to Hampstead, one to Kensington, and
three to Victoria.</p>

<p>“There you are,” said the manager, pointing to the
second to Victoria. “See under extras, ‘Two packages.’
That’s what you want.”</p>

<p>It looked as if the manager was right. The first of
the three vehicles to Victoria had no outside luggage,
and the third was for a party of five. No. 2 had left at
7.55 with one passenger and two outside packages.</p>

<p>“It’s promising enough,” French admitted. “If you
could tell me where to find the driver of that car I should
be much obliged.”</p>

<p>“John Straker.” The manager picked up his desk telephone.
“Where is John Straker at present?” he called,
and in a moment to French, “He’s out at work. He’s
on the stand beside the Savoy, and if you go there now,
and don’t mind waiting, you’ll see him. I’ll give you a
note to him. It will make him more ready to talk. He’s
a peculiar-looking man, cleanshaven, with a thin white
face and hooked nose and very black eyes; you’ll
recognise him at once. Better take his time-book also.
It may bring the trip back to his memory.”</p>

<p>French, having thanked the manager, returned to the
cab rank. As he walked down it glancing at the drivers,
a taxi drove up and took its place at the tail of the line.
Its driver answered the description, and when he had
switched off his engine and seemed at liberty, French
accosted him and explained his business.</p>

<p>For some seconds the man pondered, scratching his
head and turning over the leaves of his time-book. At last
he looked at French.</p>

<p>“I remember the trip,” he said. “It’s a strange thing,
but that was the only trip I made to Victoria that week.
It’s a place we’re at pretty often, as you’ll understand.
But I remember going that night. It was with a lady,
and she had two big boxes; I remember them because
they were rather big for the space on the car. But I got
them fixed up all right.”</p>

<p>“Where did you go to?”</p>

<p>“I believe the main line departure side of Victoria,
though I’m not just certain.”</p>

<p>“Good!” said French heartily. “Now, could you describe
the lady?”</p>

<p>This, however, was beyond the driver’s powers. He
had not noticed her specially, nor could he describe the
porter who had taken the luggage. But French had not
expected that, indeed, he was surprised and delighted at
having got so much.</p>

<p>The rest of that day and most of the next he spent at
Victoria, interviewing porters, inspectors, ticket collectors,
and any other officials he could find, who might by chance
have seen the quarry. But nowhere had he any luck.
The unknown remained unknown.</p>

<p>As he continued turning the matter over in his mind,
a further possible clue in connection with the trunks
occurred to him. They were large; they could not be
taken in the carriage. It was nearly certain, therefore,
that they must have been registered through. Were
there records, he wondered, of such registration?</p>

<p>He went to the registration office and saw the clerk
in charge. Yes, there were records; they were kept for
a while and then destroyed. He could with a little trouble
turn up those for the Newhaven boat train on the 26th
November, and he would certainly do so to oblige the
Inspector.</p>

<p>But the records, when at last they were produced,
revealed neither the name of Mrs. Root nor the fact
that any one had registered two large trunks by that
train.</p>

<p>French discussed the possibility of those in question
having been taken unregistered. It seemed that this was
possible, but most unlikely. In any case, had it been
done, the clerk believed the Customs people would have
noted it. But it would take some time to find out.</p>

<p>“Don’t trouble about it,” French told him; “at least,
not in the meantime.”</p>

<p>Suppose this woman crook was impersonating Mrs.
Root, as he believed she was, would she not, as soon as
she had disposed of the diamonds, seek to vanish and
to resume her real personality? If so, did this not involve
getting rid of the trunks? Did she really require
them, or had they served their purpose when they reached
Victoria?</p>

<p>As a forlorn hope, he decided he would act on this
idea. Suppose she wanted to get rid of them, how would
she do it?</p>

<p>There were several ways, but he felt satisfied that the
easiest and best would be simply to leave them in the
left luggage office. A considerable time would elapse
before any question would arise about them, and it
would then probably only take the form of their being
opened by the railway company, and their contents sold
for what they would bring.</p>

<p>He went round to the left luggage office and propounded
his inquiry. And immediately he received a
pleasant surprise. The clerk to whom he was referred
smiled, and turning over some papers, pointed to an item.
It read, “Two large American trunks: White Star labels,
S. S. <span class="it">Olympic</span>. Mrs. Chauncey S. Root, passenger to
Southampton.”</p>

<p>“Bit of luck for you, sir,” the clerk remarked. “I was
looking over the list only to-day, and I noticed the item.
Boxes were left in on 26th of last month, and have not
been claimed.”</p>

<p>“I want to open them and perhaps take them to the
Yard.”</p>

<p>The necessary authority was soon obtained, and
French followed the clerk to a huge room stored with
luggage of all descriptions. Calling the porter in charge,
they were conducted to a corner in which stood two large
boxes, and French, looking at the labels, found they were
those of which he was in search.</p>

<p>“Pull those out, George,” the clerk directed, “so as
this gentleman can open them, and let him take them
away if he wants to. That all you want, sir?”</p>

<p>French, left to himself, began by satisfying himself
that the handwriting on the labels was the same as that
of the cheques. Then, taking a bunch of skeleton keys
from his pockets, he set to work on the locks. In a few
moments both stood open.</p>

<p>For a space he stood staring down in amazement at
their contents. They were full of blankets! Just new,
thin blankets of a poor cheap quality. They were fairly
tightly packed, and completely filled the trunks.</p>

<p>He took out the blankets, and opening each out, shook
it to make sure that no small article was concealed in the
folds. But there was nothing.</p>

<p>Nor was there any smooth surface within the empty
trunks upon which finger impressions might have been
left. They were lined with canvas, fine as to quality,
but still too rough to carry prints.</p>

<p>Inspector French felt more puzzled and baffled than
ever. What, under the sun, were the blankets for? And
where was the woman who had carried them about?</p>

<p>He was certainly no further on as to finding her,
whether she had crossed to France, or travelled to some
other point on the Southern system, or had simply
walked out of the station and been swallowed up in the
Wilderness of London, she was just as completely lost
to him as ever. Hard luck that so unexpected a lift
as the finding of the trunks should have led to so little.</p>

<p>But there was one thing it had led to. It settled the
question of the impersonation. On no other hypothesis
could the abandonment of the trunks be explained.</p>

<p>A point of which he had already thought recurred to
him. If the unknown had impersonated Mrs. Root she
either knew her or knew a great deal about her. The
chances, therefore, were that Mrs. Root knew the unknown.
It also seemed pretty certain that Mrs. X, as
he began to call the unknown in his mind, had really
crossed in the <span class="it">Olympic</span>. How else would she obtain the
labels and the dinner menu? Granted these two probabilities,
it almost certainly followed that the real Mrs.
Root and Mrs. X had met on board. If so, would it not
be worth while interviewing Mrs. Root in the hope that
she might by the method of elimination suggest the
names of one or more persons who might have carried
out the trick, and thus provide French with another
point of attack.</p>

<p>Thinking it would be worth while to investigate the
matter, he returned to the Yard and sent a cable to the
Pittsburg police asking them to obtain Mrs. Root’s
present address.</p>

<p>He glanced at his watch. It was not yet five o’clock,
and he saw that he would have time to make another
call before going off duty. Fifteen minutes later he
pushed open the door of Dashford’s Inquiry Agency in
Suffolk Street, off the Strand.</p>

<p>“Mr. Parker in?” he demanded of the bright young
lady who came to the counter, continuing in response
to her request for his name, “Inspector French from
the Yard, but Mr. Parker’s an old friend and I’ll just
go right in.”</p>

<p>The girl eyed him doubtfully as he passed through
the counter, and, crossing the office, tapped at a door
in the farther wall. Without waiting for a reply, he
pushed the door open and passed within, shutting it
behind him.</p>

<p>Writing at a desk in the centre of the room was an
enormously stout man. He did not look up, but grunted
impatiently “Well?”</p>

<p>“Well yourself,” French grunted, mimicking the other’s
tone.</p>

<p>The fat man looked up, then a smile dawned on his
rubicund countenance, and he got heavily to his feet
and held out a huge hand. “Why, Joe, old son, I’m
glad to see you. It’s a long time since you blew in.
Bring the chair around to the fire and let’s hear the
news.”</p>

<p>French did as he was told, as he answered, “All’s
well, Tom? Busy?”</p>

<p>“Not too busy for a chat with you. How’s the Yard?”</p>

<p>“The Yard’s going strong; same old six and eightpence.
I often think you did wisely to chuck it up and
start in here. More your own boss, eh?”</p>

<p>The fat man shook his head.</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” he said slowly, handing a tobacco
pouch to his visitor. “I don’t know. More your own
boss, perhaps; but more worry. If you don’t get jobs
here, you don’t get your pay, and no pension at the end
except the interest on what you save up. I’ve thought
of that pension many a time since I left.”</p>

<p>“Rubbish!” French exclaimed genially as he filled
his pipe. “You’re too young to be talking of pensions.
I was here looking for you about a week ago, but you
were in Scotland.”</p>

<p>“Yes, I was at that Munro case. Acting for old
Munro. I think he’ll pull it off.”</p>

<p>“I dare say.” The talk drifted on, then French turned
it to the object of his call.</p>

<p>“I’m on a case that you people have had a finger in.
I wish you’d tell me what you can about it. It’s that
business of Mrs. Root of Pittsburg that Williams &amp;
Davies of Cockspur Street put you on to six weeks ago.
They wanted you to find out what she was like, and if
she crossed by the <span class="it">Olympic</span>.”</p>

<p>“Huh,” said the fat man. “Well, we told ’em. I
handled it myself.”</p>

<p>“Did they tell you why they wanted to know?”</p>

<p>“Nope. Only asked the question.”</p>

<p>“That’s where they made the mistake. A woman
called on Williams, saying she was Mrs. Root and had
crossed by the <span class="it">Olympic</span>. She said she had lost her
despatch case with her passport and tickets and money,
and she wanted a loan of £3000 on the security of
diamonds she had in her trunk.”</p>

<p>“Well? Was it not right?”</p>

<p>“It was perfectly right so far. Williams was satisfied
from what you told him that she was the woman, and
he lent the money.”</p>

<p>French paused, smiling, and his friend swore.</p>

<p>“Confound it, man! Can’t you get on? Were the
stones paste?”</p>

<p>“Not at all. They took them to Stronge, of Hurst &amp;
Stronge’s, and he valued them. They were perfectly all
right, worth £3300 odd, <span class="it">but</span>”—French paused and became
very impressive—“they were all stolen from Duke
&amp; Peabody the night before!”</p>

<p>The fat man was visibly impressed. He stared fixedly
at French, as he might had that philosopher turned into
Mrs. Root before his eyes. Then heavily he smote his
thigh.</p>

<p>“Je—hosaphat!” he observed slowly. “The night
before! Some crook that! Tell me.”</p>

<p>“That’s about all there is to tell,” French declared.
“The woman arrived at the Savoy about eight o’clock,
the night before, ostensibly from the <span class="it">Olympic</span>, and she
left next night and has vanished. No clue so far. I
traced her to Victoria and there lost the trail.”</p>

<p>The fat man thought profoundly.</p>

<p>“Well, if Williams &amp; Davies want to blame us for
it, they can look elsewhere,” he presently announced.
“They asked us a question, and we gave them a correct
and immediate reply.”</p>

<p>“I know that,” French agreed. “Williams asked you
the wrong question. Mrs. Root was impersonated; at
least, that’s my theory. But what I wanted to know
from you was how you got your information. Between
ourselves, are you satisfied about it?”</p>

<p>The fat man shook his fist good-humouredly.</p>

<p>“Now, young man,” he advised, “don’t you get fresh
with me. But I’ll tell you,” he went on, suddenly grave.
“It was through Pinkerton’s. We have an arrangement
with them. I cabled their New York depot and they got
the information.”</p>

<p>“I knew it would be all right,” French answered, “but
I was curious to know how you worked.”</p>

<p>The two men chatted for some time, then French
said he must go. Half an hour later he reached his
house, and with a sigh of relief at the thought of his
slippers and his arm-chair, let himself in.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</span><span epub:type="label">A DEAL IN JEWELLERY</span></h2>

<p>Inspector French’s cheery self-confidence was never
so strongly marked as when his mind was free from
misgiving as to his course of action in the immediate
future. When something was obviously waiting to be
done he invariably went straight in and did it, shrinking
neither from difficulty nor unpleasantness, provided only
he could carry through his task to a successful conclusion.
It was only when he did not see his way clear
that he became depressed, and then he grew surly as a
bear with a sore head, and his subordinates kept at as
great a distance from him as their several activities
would permit.</p>

<p>On the morning following his conversation with the
stout representative of the inquiry agency, he was in
great form, signifying that not only were his plans for
the day satisfactorily in being, but that no doubt of
their super-excellence clouded his mind. He had decided
first to call on the jewellers to whom Mrs. X had paid the
cheques, after which, if these visits indicated no fresh
line of attack, he would prosecute inquiries at the White
Star company’s office. By that time a reply from
Pittsburg should have arrived.</p>

<p>When he had made his usual report at the Yard, he
took out the cheques and made a note of the places to
be visited. The first two were in Piccadilly, and he began
his quest by taking a bus thither.</p>

<p>By one o’clock he had been round the whole six, and
as he sat lunching in a small French restaurant off Cranbourne
Street, he thought over what he had learned. In
each shop, after more or less delay, he had found the
salesman who had served Mrs. X. All six men remembered
her, and her proceedings with each seemed to have
been the same. In each case she had asked for a piece
of jewellery for a dear friend who was going to be married—something
plain, but good; a diamond ring or a
jewelled bangle or some costly trifle which would please
a young girl’s fancy. In each shop her purchases came
to somewhere between two and three hundred pounds,
and in each case she had proffered a cheque. She had
volunteered to wait while a messenger was sent to the
bank, as she had admitted that she couldn’t expect the
shop people to take her cheque when they didn’t know
her. The salesmen had all protested that this was unnecessary,
and had politely kept her talking while they
took the precaution. Finally, a telephone from the bank
having reassured them, they had handed her her purchase
and bowed her out. None of them had either noticed or
suspected anything unusual in the transactions, and all
were satisfied everything about them was O. K.</p>

<p>French was considerably puzzled by the whole business,
but under the stimulus of a cup of coffee, a possible
theory flashed into his mind.</p>

<p>Was it not probable that this purchase of costly but
commonplace articles of jewellery at six different shops
was simply a part of the plan to transform Mr. Duke’s
sixteen stones into money? As he thought over it,
French thought he could dimly grasp that plan as a
whole. First, the minds of Mr. Williams and of Mr.
Hurst were prepared for what was coming by a previous
visit. It was impossible that any suspicion could attach
to that first visit, as when it was paid the robbery had
not taken place. And now French saw that, but for the
accident of the clerk, Orchard, visiting the office, these
two gentlemen would not have known anything about
the robbery when the second call was made, a distinctly
clever achievement from the criminal’s point of view.
However, be that as it might, Mrs. X’s bluff carried her
through, and she exchanged her stones, or rather Mr.
Duke’s, for Mr. Williams’s cheque. But she was evidently
afraid to cash the whole of the cheque, and French
saw her point, namely, that the opening of an account
and the lodging of £1500 was an astute move, calculated
to prevent the suspicion that might possibly be caused
by the cashing of £3000 in small notes. But this safeguard
left her with the necessity of devising a plan for
cashing her deposit, and here, in the purchase of the
jewellery, French saw the plan. <span class="it">Would she not sell what
she had just bought?</span> If she could do so, there was the
whole £3000 changed into untraceable notes.</p>

<p>Of course there would be a loss at every step of the
operation. There was first of all a loss in disposing of
the jewels. Mr. Stronge had valued them at £3300,
and she had received only £3000 from Mr. Williams.
She would lose even more heavily if she really had sold
the jewellery she bought in Piccadilly and Regent Street,
and she had lost a small deposit which she had left in
her bank. But in spite of this, her scheme was well
worth while. By it she would obtain perhaps seventy
to eighty per cent. of the value of the stones, whereas,
if she had dealt with one of the recognised fences she
would not have received more than from fifteen to twenty
per cent. Moreover, her plan was safe. Up to the
present she had succeeded in concealing her identity,
but application to a fence would have left her either in
his power to blackmail, or in that of the intermediary
she employed to reach him. No, the plan was clear
enough and good enough, too, and in spite of all French’s
optimism there remained at the back of his mind the
sinking fear that she might yet pull it off.</p>

<p>But if this theory were true, it followed that if he
could trace these sales he would be furnished with another
jumping-off place or places from which to resume
his quest of the elusive Mrs. X. His next problem
therefore became, had Mrs. X sold the trinkets, and if
so, could he trace the sales?</p>

<p>He went back to the six jewellers, and obtained a
detailed description of the articles bought. Then he returned
to the Yard, and with the help of a directory and
his knowledge of the City, drew up a list of dealers who
might be expected to handle such business. Half a dozen
plain-clothes men were then impressed into the service,
with orders to call on these persons and find out if any
of the articles in question had fallen into their hands.</p>

<p>Inspector French had just completed these arrangements
when a cable was handed to him. It was in reply
to his of the previous night, and read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="hang">“Mrs. Chauncey S. Root, Hotel Bellegarde, Mürren,
till end of month.”</p>

</div>

<p>Mürren? That was in Switzerland, wasn’t it? He
sent for an atlas and a Continental Bradshaw, and looked
it up. Yes, it was in Switzerland; moreover, it was
close to where he had already been, past that lake with
the marvellous colouring—the Lake of Thun, and so to
Interlaken and the far-famed Bernese Oberland, places
which he had long desired to visit. It was with more
than a little eagerness that he once more ran over his
reasons for wanting to see Mrs. Root, and then, satisfied,
went to his chief’s room. The great man listened and
was convinced, and French, jubilant, went to prepare for
his departure on the following evening.</p>

<p>On his way to the Yard next morning, he called at the
White Star offices and got a copy of the <span class="it">Olympic’s</span> passenger
list of the trip in question. The ship, they told
him, was in New York, but would be sailing in another
three days. She would therefore be due in Southampton
on the following Wednesday week.</p>

<p>He learned also that specimens of the handwriting of
each traveller were available. Forms were filled and
declarations signed both in connection with the purchase
of the ticket and with the passing of the luggage through
the customs. If French was anxious to examine these,
he could do so by applying to their Southampton office
or to the customs authorities in the same city.</p>

<p>French decided that if his interview with Mrs. Root
led to nothing, he would follow this advice, and he resolved
that in this case he would go to Southampton when
the <span class="it">Olympic</span> was in, so as to interview the ship’s staff
as well.</p>

<p>When he returned to the Yard, he found that some
information had already come in about the jewellery.
One of his six plain-clothes men had had a stroke of
luck. At his very first call, Robsons’ of Oxford Street, he
had found a ring which answered the description of one
of the purchased articles, and which had been bought
from a lady on the afternoon of the day after that on
which Mrs. X had opened her bank account. He had
taken the ring to Messrs. Lewes &amp; Tottenham, who had
made the sale in question, and they identified it as that
sold to Mrs. X and paid for by a Mrs. Root’s cheque.
Robson had paid £190 for it, while Messrs. Lewes &amp;
Tottenham had charged £225, so the lady had lost rather
badly over the transaction. She had taken her money in
notes of small value, the numbers of which had not
been observed.</p>

<p>The assistant at Robsons’ who had served Mrs. X
could not recall her appearance; in fact, it was only
when confronted with the records of the purchase that
he remembered the matter at all. But he was satisfied
the client was an American lady, and he thought she was
neither very old nor very young, nor in any way
remarkable looking.</p>

<p>Inspector French was delighted with his news. It
proved to him beyond possibility of doubt that his theory
was correct. The purchase of these jewels was simply
part of the plan to turn the stolen diamonds into money
in a form which could not be traced. Further, it showed
that he had also been right in assuming the lady had not
gone to France on the evening she drove to Victoria; on
the following day she was still in London.</p>

<p>But so far as he could see, the discovery brought him
no nearer to finding the mysterious woman. The dealer’s
assistant could not describe her, nor had she left any
traces which could be followed up. In fact, here was
another promising clue which bade fair to vanish in
smoke, and as he thought over the possibility, some
measure of chagrin began to dull the keenness of his
delight.</p>

<p>During the forenoon another of the plain-clothes men
struck oil, and by lunch time a third transaction had come
to light. Unfortunately, both of these cases was as unproductive
as the original discovery. None of the shop
people could remember who had sold the trinket. French
went himself to each shop, but his most persistent efforts
failed to extract any further information.</p>

<p>That night he left for Mürren. In due time he reached
Berne, and changing trains, travelled down past Spiez,
under the great conical hill of Niesen, along the shores
of the lake of Thun and into Interlaken. There he slept
the night, and next morning took the narrow gauge line
that led south into the heart of the giants of the Bernese
Oberland. He felt overpowered by the towering chain
of mountains, the Matterhorn, the Eiger, the Mönch, the
Jungfrau, and as they wound their way up the narrow
valley he felt as if the overwhelming masses were closing
down on him from either side. Reaching Lauterbrunnen,
he went up by the funiculaire to the Mürren plateau, and
continued his way by the electric tramway to the famous
resort. There, as he walked to the Bellegarde, he gazed
fascinated across the valley at the mighty buttresses of
the Jungfrau, one summit of dazzling white succeeding
another, up and up and up into the clear, thin blue of
the sky. It took more to bring him to earth than a fellow-traveller’s
gratified suggestion that at last they would
be able to get a decent drink after all that travelling
through the snow. He and his new friend went to the
bar of the Bellegarde and had two of Scotch, and gradually
the magic of the mountains faded, and the interview
with Mrs. Root began to reassume its former importance.</p>

<p>An examination of the register revealed the name,
Mrs. Chauncey S. Root, Pittsburg, U. S. A., same as at
the Savoy, but here it was written in quite a different
hand. The real Mrs. Root this time, French thought, as
he turned away from the office.</p>

<p>He decided to wait until after lunch before tackling
the lady, but he got the head waiter to point her out as
she entered the restaurant. She undoubtedly answered
the description given by the American detectives as well
as by Mr. Williams, but on looking at her he recognized
more than ever the vague and unsatisfactory nature of
that description. It was one that would apply to
hundreds of women.</p>

<p>In the lounge after lunch he spoke to her. He apologised
for intruding, explained who he was, and begged
that she would give him an interview, and, if possible,
some information.</p>

<p>“Why certainly,” she agreed. “We’ll go right to my
sitting-room,” and French told himself that from nowhere
on earth save the United States of America could
that voice have come.</p>

<p>“You are Mrs. Chauncey S. Root?” he began, when
they were settled in the private room of the best suite
the hotel contained. “I should be glad if, before we begin
to talk, you would be good enough to let me see your
passport. I shall explain why later.”</p>

<p>“I guess you’d better tell me first,” she returned, leaning
back in her arm-chair and lighting a cigarette.</p>

<p>French smiled.</p>

<p>“As you will, madam. The fact is that two ladies,
each calling herself Mrs. Chauncey S. Root, of Pittsburg,
U. S. A., crossed by the <span class="it">Olympic</span> to Southampton. I have
been sent from Scotland Yard to find out which is the
real one.”</p>

<p>The lady looked incredulous.</p>

<p>“Say, now, what started you on to that yarn? I
crossed by the <span class="it">Olympic</span>, but there was no one else of that
name aboard.”</p>

<p>“Nevertheless a Mrs. Chauncey S. Root, who had just
crossed by the <span class="it">Olympic</span>, turned up at the Savoy Hotel
on the day the ship reached Liverpool, and put through
a fraud on a man in London to the tune of £3000. I
know, madam, it was not you, but I have to get some
proof of it that will convince my superiors.”</p>

<p>With little ejaculations of interest and astonishment
the lady arose, and unlocking a despatch case, took from
it a book.</p>

<p>“You can have that passport right now,” she declared.
“You have interested me quite a lot. Start right in and
tell me the story.”</p>

<p>French examined the document, and as he did so his
last doubt vanished. The lady before him was Mrs. Root.
Mrs. X remained—Mrs. X.</p>

<p>Asking her to keep the story to herself, he told her
in considerable detail all that he knew of Mr. Williams’s
mysterious visitor, continuing:</p>

<p>“Now, Mrs. Root, you will see where I want your
help. Some one has impersonated you, some one who
more than probably crossed with you from New York.
I want you to think whom it might have been. Here’s a
copy of the passenger list. Please take your time, and
go over the people you met on the trip. Eliminate those
you are sure of, and put a mark opposite the others.
You follow what I mean?”</p>

<p>“I follow you all right, but it isn’t as easy as you
seem to think. I couldn’t remember all the people I came
across between New York and London.”</p>

<p>“I suppose not. But, after all, the thing isn’t so big
as that. Only a very few of the women would fill the
bill. First, she must be roughly of your height and your
figure—not very like, of course, but approximately. You
need not mind her colouring, for she could make that up—except
her eyes; her eyes are a light golden brown.
Can you remember any one with eyes like that?”</p>

<p>The lady shook her head, and French went on:</p>

<p>“Then she must be a clever woman; clever and courageous
and determined, and something of an actress also.
She must be all those things to have carried such a deal
off successfully.”</p>

<p>French paused to allow his words to sink in, then
continued once more:</p>

<p>“And she knows quite a lot about you. Not only has
she observed your appearance, but she would obviously
try to find out all she could about you, so that she might
answer questions she might be asked. Do none of these
points bring any one to your mind? Please, Mrs. Root,
try to help me. If you cannot give me some ideas I may
as well confess I don’t know where to turn next.”</p>

<p>“Well, I’ll do what I can, but I don’t see any light so
far.” She crossed the room and once more hunted
through the despatch case. “Here are some pictures I
took with my kodak. Maybe they’ll suggest some one.”</p>

<p>There were two dozen or more photographs of groups
of passengers, taken on board the liner. Mrs. Root began
with systematic precision to go through them. As she
pointed to each individual she repeated to the Inspector
what she knew about her.</p>

<p>“Mrs. Jelfs—guess she wouldn’t do—too fat. Miss—Miss——I
just don’t recall that young woman’s name.
But she’s too tall anyway; half a head taller’n me. Next
is Haidee Squance, daughter of Old Man Squance of
Consolidated Oil. I’ve known her since I’ve known anything.
Then this one is—say now, who is this one?
I’ve got it; a little girl called Dinsmore: Irish, I think.
She’s no good either—eyes of the lightest blue I ever saw.
Next is Mrs. Purce,” and so on for five-and-twenty
minutes by the electric clock on the mantelpiece.</p>

<p>French was highly delighted with the efficient way
in which his hostess had tackled the job, but when all
was said and done the result was disappointingly small.
Eight persons in the photographs had been marked as
possibles, of whom Mrs. Root remembered the names
of five. Of these five, one, a Mrs. Ward, whom Mrs.
Root had met for the first time on board, seemed the
most likely for several reasons. She was about Mrs.
Root’s height, though stouter, had, Mrs. Root believed,
light brown eyes, and had been friendly, and, Mrs. Root
now remembered, just a trifle inquisitive. But she was
ruled out by her nationality. That she really was English,
as she claimed, Mrs. Root had no doubt whatever.
French showed her the cheques, but she could not recall
ever having seen the handwriting in which they were
filled out.</p>

<p>But she did give him one hint that he felt might prove
valuable. She said that the stewardess who had looked
after her cabin was a peculiarly intelligent and observant
woman. Mrs. Root had been surprised on different occasions
by the intimate knowledge of herself and her
fellow travellers which this stewardess exhibited. She
did not exactly accuse her of spying, but she thought
she would be more likely to answer French’s inquiries
than any one else he could find. She did not remember
the woman’s name, but she was rather striking-looking,
with dark eyes, a young face, and perfectly white hair,
and he would have no difficulty in identifying her.</p>

<p>Mrs. Root was extremely interested in the whole affair,
and begged the Inspector to keep her posted as to developments.
This he promised to do, as he took his
leave.</p>

<p>He had now more reason than ever for visiting Southampton
when the <span class="it">Olympic</span> was next in, and he set out
on the following morning on his return journey, reaching
London on the Tuesday afternoon.</p>

<p>At the Yard he found that three more of the transactions
of the mysterious lady had come to light, but unfortunately
in each case without supplying any clue which
might lead to her identification. These discoveries
accounted for some £1200 worth of the jewellery Mrs. X
had bought, and for this she had received £1090, making
a loss on the transaction of only about nine per cent.</p>

<p>He took an early opportunity of visiting Mr. Williams,
to ask him if he could identify his mysterious caller in
Mrs. Root’s group. But the money-lender was not illuminative.
He did not reply for some time, turning the cards
over as if uncertain, but finally he pointed to Mrs.
Ward’s figure.</p>

<p>“That’s like the lady,” he said doubtfully, “but I confess
I am not sure of her. If it is she, it is an uncommonly
bad photograph.” He continued staring at the picture.
“You know,” he went on slowly, “I’ve seen that woman
before; that woman that you say is Mrs. Ward. I’ve
certainly seen her somewhere. It’s a curious thing, but I
had the same impression when my visitor called here with
the diamonds; I thought vaguely that I had seen her
before. But I wasn’t so sure as I am about this Mrs.
Ward. Somewhere, at some time, I’ve seen her. I wish
to heaven I could remember where.”</p>

<p>“I wish to heaven you could,” French agreed in somewhat
aggrieved tones. “It would make things a lot easier
for me.”</p>

<p>“If I can’t remember to help find my £3000, it’s not
likely I shall be able to do it to ease your job,” the other
declared dryly. “I can’t place her. I’ve thought and
thought, and it’s no good. Some one I’ve seen in a train
or a restaurant most likely. I don’t think it’s any one
I’ve ever met.”</p>

<p>French next called at the Piccadilly branch of the
London and Counties Bank, and saw Mr. Scarlett and
the clerk, Plenteous. Both these gentlemen hesitatingly
selected Mrs. Ward’s photograph as being like that of
their mysterious client, though neither believed it was
she. As in the case of Mr. Williams, the manager thought
the lady’s features were familiar, though he was sure he
had never met her before. With this, French had to be
content.</p>

<p>He spent his afternoon in driving round the shops and
agents with whom the elusive Mrs. X had dealt. Of the
eleven assistants who had served her, seven thought she
was like Mrs. Ward, and four could not recall her
appearance.</p>

<p>All this testimony was very unsatisfactory to French,
but he thought the balance of probability was in favour
of Mrs. Ward being the woman he sought, and more
hopeful than he had been for some time, he travelled
down to Southampton on the Wednesday evening, so as
to be there for the arrival of the <span class="it">Olympic</span> on the following
day.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</span><span epub:type="label">THE ELUSIVE MRS. X</span></h2>

<p>Inspector French put up at a small hotel near the
town station, and next morning was early at the White
Star offices. There he learned that the <span class="it">Olympic</span> was even
at that moment coming in, and he went down to the
quays and watched the berthing of the monster vessel.
It was an impressive experience to see her creep up to
her place, manœuvre into position, and make fast. Then
from her gangways began to stream the travellers who,
for the better part of a week, had journeyed aboard her.
Some were hurrying, already intent on business or anxious
to catch trains, others leisurely awaiting taxis and motorcars,
some smilingly greeting friends or waving farewells
to voyage acquaintances, all drifting gradually away, their
places taken by others—and still others. . . . French began
to think the exodus would never cease, but at last the
crowd diminished, and he pushed his way on board and
began a search for the purser. Urgent work in connection
with the arrival prevented that busy official from attending
to him at once, but he sent a steward to show
French to his cabin, and presently joined him there.</p>

<p>“Sorry for keeping you waiting, Inspector,” he apologised.
“You want some information about our home
trip in late November?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” French answered, and he explained his business
and produced Mrs. Root’s marked photographs, concluding,
“I want to find out the names and addresses of these
eight women, and as much information as possible about
them.”</p>

<p>“I’m afraid I could scarcely give you that,” the purser
answered. “The records of each trip go ashore at the
end of the trip, and I have only those of this present run.
But some of the staff might remember the names of the
ladies, and if so, you could get their addresses at the
office ashore.”</p>

<p>“That would do excellently. I have a copy of the
passenger list here, if it would be of any use.”</p>

<p>“Yes, it would be a reminder. Let me see now if I can
help you myself, and if not, I think I can put you in the
way of getting to know.” He began to scrutinise the
photographs.</p>

<p>“That’s Mrs. Root,” French indicated, moving round
and looking over the other’s shoulder. “She gave me the
names of five, but I should like to check her recollection.
The other three she couldn’t remember.”</p>

<p>The purser nodded as he turned the pictures over.
“That’s a Mrs. Forbes,” he pointed, “and I rather
think that is a Miss Grayson or Graves or some name
like that. I remember most of these other faces, but not
the people’s names.”</p>

<p>“Mrs. Forbes and Miss Grayson are correct according
to Mrs. Root.”</p>

<p>The purser laid down the photographs with the air of
quiet decision which seemed characteristic.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid that’s my limit.” He touched a bell. “Ask
Mrs. Hope to come here,” he ordered, continuing to
French, “Mrs. Hope is the chief stewardess. You can go
round with her, and I expect she’ll get you what you
want all right.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Hope was an efficient-looking woman, who
quickly grasped what was required of her. She asked
French to accompany her to her sanctum, and there
looked over the photographs. She was herself able to
identify six of the portraits, and on calling on some of
her underlings, the names of the remaining two were
speedily forthcoming.</p>

<p>French was glad to find that Mrs. Root’s recollection
of the names of her fellow travellers had been correct as
far as it had gone, and as he left the great vessel he
devoutly hoped that she might have been correct also in
her belief that Mrs. X was among the eight women she had
indicated. If so, he was well on his way to identify that
elusive lady.</p>

<p>He returned to the White Star office and explained that
he wanted to know the Christian names, addresses, and
other available particulars of the eight women whose
names were marked on the passenger list which he
handed in, as well as to see a specimen of the handwriting
of each.</p>

<p>He realised that the only conclusive test was the handwriting.
If one of the eight women wrote the hand of
the Mrs. X cheques, he had reached his goal. If not, he
determined to go through the declarations of every
woman who had crossed on the trip in question in the
hope of finding what he sought.</p>

<p>The clerk who had been instructed to attend to him
brought out a mass of papers. “I wonder,” he said apologetically,
“if you would mind looking through these
yourself? It is our busy day, and I’ve an awful lot to get
through. You see, it’s quite simple. These are the embarkation
declarations for the trip, and you can turn up
any one you want quite easily. They are arranged in
alphabetical order in the different classes. They’ll give
you what you want to know straight off.”</p>

<p>“Right you are,” French declared, delighted thus to
get a free hand. “Don’t you bother about me. I’ll peg
away, and come and ask you if I get into trouble.”</p>

<p>He “pegged away,” looking up the declaration of each
of the eight women, noting the name, address, nationality,
and other particulars, and then comparing the handwriting
with the signatures on the Mrs. X cheques.</p>

<p>He was not a handwriting expert, but he knew enough
about the science to recognise the characteristics which
remain unchanged when the writing is disguised. He
was, therefore, very patient and thorough in his search,
never passing a signature because it looked unlike the
model at first sight, but testing each by the rules he had
learned, and satisfying himself that it really had been
written by a different hand.</p>

<p>He went on without incident until he reached the eighth
name on his list. But when he turned to the declaration
of Mrs. Ward, the lady whom Mrs. Root had thought
the most likely of the lot, he gave a sudden little chuckle
of delight. There was the hand of the cheques, the same
hand unquestionably, and written without any attempt at
disguise! There it was! Mrs. Elizabeth Ward, aged
39, British subject, etc., etc., of Oaklands, Thirsk Road,
York. He had reached his goal!</p>

<p>But immediately he was assailed by misgivings, Mrs.
Root had thought of Mrs. Ward, but had ruled her out
because of her nationality. Mrs. Ward, she had said,
was English, while all the people who had seen Mrs. X,
seventeen or eighteen persons at least, had agreed she
was an American. He would have assumed that Mrs.
Root had made a mistake, but for the fact that the
declaration said English also. French was puzzled, and
he decided that he would go back to the ship and ascertain
the views of the staff on the point.</p>

<p>But they all supported Mrs. Root. Mrs. Ward was
English; undoubtedly and unquestionably English. The
stewards and the stewardesses had some experience on
the point, and they guessed they knew. Also he came
across the doctor, who, it appeared, had spoken on
several occasions to Mrs. Ward, and he was equally
positive.</p>

<p>It chanced that as he was leaving the ship he encountered
the woman to whom Mrs. Root had advised
him to apply, the striking-looking stewardess with dark
eyes and white hair, and he stopped and spoke to her.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, she could not tell him very much. She
remembered Mrs. Ward, both by name and appearance,
though she had not attended to her. But it chanced,
nevertheless, that her attention had been specially
directed to her because of a certain incident which had
taken place towards the end of the voyage. Passing
down the corridor while lunch was being served, she had
seen the door of one of the cabins in her own charge,
open slightly, and a lady appear and glance quickly
round, as if to see if she was unobserved. The cabin
was occupied by a Mrs. Root, an American, but the
lady was this Mrs. Ward. Something stealthy and furtive
in her appearance had excited the stewardess’s suspicion,
and she had drawn back into another cabin to await
developments. Mrs. Ward, evidently satisfied that she
was unnoticed, had turned to the dining saloon, and
taken her place. The stewardess had kept her eye on
her, and after the meal she had seen her go up to Mrs.
Root and speak to her, as if reporting the result of her
mission. This action had lulled the stewardess’s suspicion,
but she had returned to Mrs. Root’s cabin and
had had a look round to see if anything had been disturbed.
So far as she could see, nothing had, nor had
Mrs. Root made any complaint about her things having
been interfered with.</p>

<p>If further confirmation of his suspicions were needed,
French felt that this episode supplied it. Doubtless Mrs.
Ward was amassing information as to the other’s clothes
and belongings to assist her in her impersonation. Perhaps
also she was photographing envelopes or other
documents of which to prepare forgeries in case of need.</p>

<p>There still remained the difficulty of her nationality.
Obviously it is easy to mimic the accent and manner of
a foreigner, but French found it hard to believe that such
mimicry could be so perfect as to deceive a large number
of persons, many of whom were experts on that particular
point. This, however, was only a small part of the
general problem, and did not affect his next business, to
find Mrs. Elizabeth Ward, Thirsk Road, York.</p>

<p>He went ashore, and, turning into a telegraph office,
sent a wire to the chief of police at York, asking him if
a lady of that name lived at the address in question and,
if so, to wire was she at home.</p>

<p>His next business was at police headquarters, and
thither he was directing his steps when a thought struck
him, and he turned aside to the sheds in which the transatlantic
luggage is examined. Several of the customs
officers were still there, and he went up and spoke to
one of them.</p>

<p>“Now,” the young fellow answered in surprise, “it’s
a darned queer thing that you came to me about that.
Quite a coincidence, that is. I know the man who went
through those trunks. He told me about it at the time.
It seemed a darned silly thing that any one should want
to bring trunks of blankets from America. If you come
along I’ll find him for you. And so the lady’s wanted,
is she? Say, Jack!” he called a colleague, another clean,
efficient young fellow of the same type, “here’s some one
wants you. He wants to know about those trunks of
blankets you were telling me about two or three trips of
the <span class="it">Olympic</span> back. A darned queer coincidence that he
should come to me about them. That’s what I call it!”</p>

<p>“Yes, you’ve made a lucky shot, haven’t you?” the
second man said to French. “I remember the trunks
and the lady they belonged to, because I couldn’t understand
why any one should want to bring trunks of
blankets across the Atlantic. I’ve never known any one
do it before.”</p>

<p>“You didn’t make any remark about them,” French
asked.</p>

<p>“No, but she did. She said she reckoned I hadn’t often
seen trunks of blankets brought over from America.
You see, I was a bit suspicious at first, and was examining
the things pretty carefully. I said that was so, and
she said she was taking back a small but valuable collection
of porcelain ornaments, which she would pack in
the blankets, and that when she had to bring the trunks
anyway, she thought she might as well bring the packing
as well and so save buying new. I thought the whole
business a bit off, but there was nothing dutiable in the
case, and it wasn’t my job to interfere. Is there anything
wrong about it?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” French told him. “I think the woman
was a crook, but I’m not on to the blanket stunt yet.
By the way, is she in one of those groups?”</p>

<p>The young man identified Mrs. Ward without hesitation,
and French, finding he had learned all that the
customs men could tell him, resumed his way to the
police station.</p>

<p>He wondered what this blanket business really did
mean. Then as he walked slowly along with head bent
forward and eyes vacantly scanning the pavement, a
possible explanation occurred to him. These trunks,
apparently, were required solely as properties to assist
in the fraud. Mrs. Root, the wife of a Pittsburg magnate,
would scarcely arrive at the Savoy from America without
American trunks. But when Mrs. Root came to disappear,
the trunks would become an embarrassment.
They would have to be got rid of, and, as a matter of
fact, they were got rid of. They must therefore contain
nothing of the lady’s, no personal possession which might
act as a clue to its owner. But they must contain something.
Empty trunks would be too light, and might be
observed by the chambermaid, and comments might be
occasioned among the hotel staff which might reach the
management, and which would become important if Mr.
Williams rang up to make his inquiries. But blankets
would exactly fill the bill; indeed, French could think of
nothing more suitable for the purpose. They would give
the trunks a moderate weight, they would not supply a
clue to Mrs. Ward, and they would be cheap, while their
presence could be accounted for sufficiently reasonably
to the customs officers. Yes, French thought, it was a
probable enough explanation.</p>

<p>Arrived at the police station, he sent in his name with
a request to see the officer in charge.</p>

<p>Superintendent Hayes had been stationed in London
before he got his present appointment, and had come
across French on more than one occasion. He therefore
greeted the Inspector cordially, found him a comfortable
chair, and supplied him with an excellent cigar.</p>

<p>“From Trinidad,” he explained. “I get them direct
from a man I know out there. And what’s the best news
of you?”</p>

<p>They discussed old times for some minutes, then
French turned to the business in hand.</p>

<p>“It’s an interesting case,” he said as he gave the other
the details, continuing, “The woman must be a pretty
cool hand. She could easily invent that tale about losing
her passport, for old Williams’s edification, but under
the circumstances her coming to you about it was a bit
class.”</p>

<p>“She had a nerve, yes,” the Superintendent admitted.
“But, you see, it was necessary. She must have known
that the absence of the passport would strike Williams
as suspicious, and it was necessary for her to remove
that suspicion. She couldn’t very well get a bag of that
kind stolen without informing the police, so she had to
inform them. She would see how easily Williams could
check her statement, as indeed he did. No, I don’t see
how she could have avoided coming to us. It was an
obvious precaution.”</p>

<p>“I quite agree with all you say,” French returned,
“but it argues a cool customer for all that; not only, so
to speak, putting her head into the lion’s mouth, but at
the same time calling his attention to it’s being there.
Anyway, I’ve got to find her, and I wish you’d let me
have details about her. I’ve got some from the <span class="it">Olympic</span>
people, but I want to pick up everything I can.”</p>

<p>The Superintendent telephoned to some one to “send
up Sergeant McAfee,” and when a tall, cadaverous man
entered, he introduced him as the man who had dealt
with the business in question.</p>

<p>“Sergeant McAfee has just been transferred to us
from Liverpool,” he explained. “Sit down, McAfee. Inspector
French wants to know some details about that
woman who lost her handbag coming off the <span class="it">Olympic</span>
some seven weeks ago. I think you handled the thing.
Do you remember a Mrs. Root of Pittsburg?”</p>

<p>“I mind her rightly, sir,” the man answered in what
French believed was a Belfast accent. “But it wasn’t
coming off the <span class="it">Olympic</span> she lost it. It was later on that
same day, though it was on the quays right enough.”</p>

<p>“Tell us all you can about it.”</p>

<p>The Sergeant pulled out his notebook. “I have it in
me other book,” he announced. “If ye’ll excuse me,
I’ll get it.”</p>

<p>In a moment he returned, sat down, and turning over
the dog’s-eared pages of a well-worn book, began as if
reciting evidence in court:</p>

<p>“On the 24th November last at about 3.00 p.m., I
was passing through the crowd on the outer quays when
I heard a woman cry out. ‘Thief, thief,’ she shouted,
and she ran up and caught me by the arm. She was
middling tall and thinnish, her face pale and her hair
dark. She spoke in an American voice, and seemed upset
or excited. She said to me, breathless like, ‘Say, officer,’
she said, ‘I’ve just had my despatch case stolen.’ I asked
her where, and how, and what was in it. She said right
there where we were standing, and not three seconds
before. She was carrying it in her hand, and it was
snatched out of it. She turned round and saw a man
juke away in the crowd. She shouted and made after
him, but he was away before she could get near. I asked
her what the case was like, and she said a small square
brown morocco leather one with gold fittings. I went
and told the two men on duty close by, and we kept a
watch on the exits, but we never saw a sign of it.”
Sergeant McAfee shook his head gloomily as he concluded.
“She hadn’t any call to be carrying a gold fitted
case in that crowd anyway.”</p>

<p>“That’s a fact, Sergeant,” the Superintendent agreed.
“And you never came on any trace of it?”</p>

<p>“No, sir. I brought her up to the station, and took
her name and all particulars. There’s the report.” He
unfolded a paper and laid it on the Superintendent’s desk.</p>

<p>In the document was a detailed description of the lady,
of the alleged despatch case and its contents, and of the
means that had been taken to try to trace it. The pawnbrokers
had been advised and a special watch kept on
fences and other usual channels for the disposal of stolen
goods.</p>

<p>When French had digested these particulars, he
brought out once more his photographs and handed them
to the Sergeant.</p>

<p>“Look at those, Sergeant, and tell me if you see the
woman among them.”</p>

<p>Slowly the Sergeant turned them over, gazing at them
in precisely the same puzzled way as had done Mr.
Williams, Mr. Scarlett, and the other London men to
whom they had been shown. And with the same doubt
and hesitation he presently fixed on Mrs. Ward.</p>

<p>“That would be to be her,” he declared slowly, “that
is, if she’s there at all. It isn’t a good likeness, but I
believe it’s her all the same.”</p>

<p>“You wouldn’t swear to her?”</p>

<p>“I’d hardly. But I believe it’s her for all that.”</p>

<p>French nodded. The Sergeant’s statement, agreeing
as it did with those of Messrs. Williams, Scarlett and Co.,
seemed capable of but one explanation. Mrs. X was
Mrs. Ward all right, but before meeting these men she
had made herself up to impersonate Mrs. Root. They
saw a likeness to Mrs. Ward because it really was she,
but they were doubtful because she was disguised.</p>

<p>The Inspector leaned forward and tapped the photograph.</p>

<p>“Put it this way, Sergeant,” he suggested. “Here is
a picture of the lady as she really is. When you saw her
she was made up to look like another woman. How’s
that, do you think?”</p>

<p>In Sergeant McAfee’s lacklustre eye there shone a
sudden gleam. “That’s just what it is, sir,” he answered
with an approach to something almost like interest in
his manner. “That’s it and no mistake. She’s like the
photograph by her features, but not by her make-up.”
He nodded his head several times in appreciation.</p>

<p>“Very good.” Inspector French invariably liked as
many strings to his bow as he could get. “Now I want
some hint from you that will help me trace her.”</p>

<p>But this was just what Sergeant McAfee could not
supply. The woman had given two addresses, the Savoy
in London and Mrs. Root’s home in Pittsburg. There
was no help in either, and no other information was
forthcoming.</p>

<p>He lunched with his friend the Superintendent, afterwards
withdrawing to the lounge of his hotel to have a
quiet smoke and to think things over.</p>

<p>While he sat there, a page appeared with a telegram.
It was a reply from the police at York and read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“Your wire. No one of that name or address
known.”</p>

</div>

<p>French swore disgustedly. He had, of course, realised
that the name might be false, but yet he had hoped
against hope that he might really have reached the end
of at least this portion of his quest. But here he was,
as far from the truth as ever! He would now have to
make a fresh start to trace this elusive lady—he used
another adjective in his mind—and he couldn’t see that
he was any better equipped for the search now than when
he had started out from Mr. Williams’s office. It was
a confoundedly exasperating case—just bristling with
promising clues which one after another petered out as
he came to follow them up. Being on it was like trying
to cross a stream on stepping-stones which invariably
gave way when he came to place his weight on them.
It was an annoying thought also that that would
scarcely be the view his chief would take of the matter.
The chief had not been over-complimentary already
in his comments on his handling of the case, and French
felt that he would view this new check in anything but
a sympathetic spirit.</p>

<p>However, grousing about it wouldn’t lead anywhere,
and with an effort he switched his thoughts back to his
problem. As he thought it over a further point occurred
to him.</p>

<p>Since his first visit to the Savoy he had wondered why
the lady had turned up there so much later than the
other passengers from the <span class="it">Olympic</span>, and now he saw the
reason. The episode of the handbag had taken place
some four hours after the vessel’s arrival, long after
the special boat train had left. Mrs. X—for she was
still Mrs. X—must therefore have travelled up by an
afternoon train, probably the 5.26 or 6.22 p.m. from the
West Station, which got in 6.58 and 8.20 respectively.
Now, why this delay? What had she done during these
four hours?</p>

<p>The answer was not far to seek. Was it not to give
her time and opportunity to assume her disguise? He
felt it must be so.</p>

<p>The lady was her natural self—other than in name—on
board the <span class="it">Olympic</span>, and having no opportunity to alter
her appearance, she had passed through the customs in
the same character. Hence the ship’s staff and the customs
officer had instantly recognised her photograph.
But it was obvious that her impersonation of Mrs. Root
must begin before she interviewed the Southampton
police, and that accounted for the hesitation of Sergeant
McAfee and the people in London in identifying her.
She had therefore made herself up between passing
through the customs at, say, eleven o’clock, and calling
on the Sergeant at three. Where was she during those
four hours?</p>

<p>He put himself in her place. Confronted with her
problem, what would he have done?</p>

<p>Gone to a hotel, unquestionably. Taken a room in
which to assume the disguise. Had Mrs. X engaged a
bedroom in one of the Southampton hotels for that
afternoon?</p>

<p>As he thought over the thing, further probabilities
occurred to him. The lady would go up to her bedroom
as one person and come down as another. Therefore,
surely, the larger the hotel, the less chance of the transformation
being observed. One of a crowd, she would
go to the reception office and engage a room for a few
hours’ rest, and pay for it then and there. Then, having
accomplished the make-up, she would slip out, unobserved
in the stream of passers-by. Yes, French felt
sure he was on the right track, and, with a fresh accession
of energy, he jumped to his feet, knocked out his pipe,
and left the building.</p>

<p>He called first at the South Western and made his
inquiries. But here he drew blank. At the Dolphin he
had no better luck, but at the Polygon he found what he
wanted. After examining the records, the reception clerk
there was able to recall the transaction. About midday
an American lady had come in, and saying she wanted
a few hours’ rest before catching the 5.26 to London, had
engaged a bedroom on a quiet floor until that hour.
She had registered, and French, on looking up the book,
was delighted to find once more the handwriting of the
lady of the cheques. It was true that on this occasion
she figured as Mrs. Silas R. Clamm, of Hill Drive,
Boston, Mass.; but knowing what he knew of her habits,
French would have been surprised to have found a name
he had seen before.</p>

<p>At first he was delighted at so striking a confirmation
of his theory, but as he pursued his inquiries his satisfaction
vanished, and once more depression and exasperation
swept over him. For the reception clerk could not
remember anything more than the mere fact of the letting
of the room, and no one else in the building remembered
the woman at all. With his usual pertinacity, he questioned
all who might have come in contact with her,
but from none of them did he receive the slightest help.
That Mrs. X had made herself up at the hotel for her
impersonation stunt was clear, but unfortunately it was
equally clear that she had vanished from the building
without leaving any trace.</p>

<p>The worst of the whole business was that he didn’t
see what more he could do. The special clues upon
which he had been building had failed him, and he felt
there was now nothing for it but to fall back on the
general one of the photographs. One of the portraits
was excellently clear as to details, and he decided he
would have an enlargement made of Mrs. X, and circulate
it among the police in the hope that some member
at some time might recognise the lady. Not a very
hopeful method certainly, but all he had left.</p>

<p>He took an evening train from the West Station, and
a couple of hours afterwards reached his home, a thoroughly
tired and disgruntled man.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</span><span epub:type="label">MRS. FRENCH TAKES A NOTION</span></h2>

<p>By the time Inspector French had finished supper and
lit up a pipe of the special mixture he affected, he felt
in considerably better form. He determined that instead
of going early to bed, as he had intended while in the
train, he would try to induce the long-suffering Mrs.
French to listen to a statement of his problem, in the
hope that light thereon would be vouchsafed to her, in
which in due course he would participate.</p>

<p>Accordingly, when she had finished with the supper
things he begged her to come and share his difficulties,
and when she had taken her place in her accustomed arm-chair
and had commenced her placid knitting, he took up
the tale of his woes.</p>

<p>Slowly and in the fullest detail he told her all he had
done from the time he was sent to Messrs. Williams &amp;
Davies, when he first heard of the mysterious Mrs. X,
up to his series of visits of that day, concluding by expressing
his belief that Mrs. X and Mrs. Ward were one
and the same person, and explaining the difficulty he
found himself up against in tracing her. She heard him
without comment, and when he had finished asked what
he proposed to do next.</p>

<p>“Why, that’s just it,” he exclaimed a trifle impatiently.
“That’s the whole thing. If I was clear about that there
would be no difficulty. What would you advise?”</p>

<p>She shook her head, and bending forward seemed to
concentrate her whole attention on her knitting. This,
French knew, did not indicate lack of interest in his
story. It was just her way. He therefore waited more
or less hopefully, and when after a few minutes she
began to question him, his hopes were strengthened.</p>

<p>“You say that Mrs. Root and those steamer people
thought the woman was English?”</p>

<p>“That’s so.”</p>

<p>“There were quite a lot of them thought she was
English?”</p>

<p>“Why, yes,” French agreed. “There was Mrs. Root
and the doctor and the purser and her dinner steward
and at least four stewardesses. They were all quite
satisfied. And the other passengers and attendants must
have been satisfied too, or the thing would have been
talked about. But I don’t see exactly what you’re getting
at.”</p>

<p>Mrs. French was not to be turned aside from her
catechism.</p>

<p>“Well, do <span class="it">you</span> think she was English?” she persisted.</p>

<p>French hesitated. Did he? He really was not sure.
The evidence seemed strong, and yet it was just as
strong, or stronger, for her being an American. Mr.
Williams, for example, was——</p>

<p>“You don’t know,” Mrs. French broke in. “Well, now,
see here. Mr. Williams said she was American?”</p>

<p>“That’s it,” her husband rejoined. “He said——”</p>

<p>“And that bank manager and his clerk, they thought
she was American?”</p>

<p>“Yes, but——”</p>

<p>“And the shops she bought and sold the jewellery at,
and the Savoy, and the Southampton police, they all
thought she was American?”</p>

<p>“Yes, but we don’t——”</p>

<p>“Well, that ought surely to give you something.”</p>

<p>“That they were sisters? I thought of that, but the
handwriting shows that they weren’t.”</p>

<p>“Of course I don’t mean sisters. Think again.”</p>

<p>French sat up sharply.</p>

<p>“What do you mean, Emily? I don’t follow what
you’re after.”</p>

<p>His wife ignored the interruption.</p>

<p>“And there’s another thing you might have thought
of,” she continued. “That Williams man thought he
had seen the woman before. What age is he?”</p>

<p>French was becoming utterly puzzled.</p>

<p>“What age?” he repeated helplessly. “I don’t know.
About sixty, I should think.”</p>

<p>“Just so,” said his wife. “And that other man, that
Scarlett, he thought he had seen her before. What age
is he?”</p>

<p>The Inspector moved nervously.</p>

<p>“Really, Emily,” he protested, “I wish you’d explain
what you’re getting at. I don’t take your meaning in
the least.”</p>

<p>“You would if you’d use your head,” his wife snapped.
“What age is that Scarlett?”</p>

<p>“About the same as the other—fifty-five or sixty.
But what has that got to do——”</p>

<p>“But the young fellow, that bank clerk; he didn’t remember
her?”</p>

<p>“No, but——”</p>

<p>“Well, there you are—silly! What would a woman
be who could make up like another woman, and put on
an English or American talk, and be remembered by
old Londoners? Why, a child could guess that, Watson!”</p>

<p>When Mrs. French called her husband by the name
of the companion of the great Holmes, it signified two
things, first, that she was in what he always referred
to as “a good twist,” and secondly, that she felt pleasantly
superior, having seen something—or thinking she
had—which he had missed. He was therefore always
delighted when a conversation reached this stage, believing
that something helpful was about to materialise.</p>

<p>But on this occasion he grasped her meaning as soon
as she had spoken. Of course! How in all the earthly
world had he missed the point? The woman was an
actress; a former London actress! That would explain
the whole thing. And if so, he would soon find her.
Actors’ club secretaries and attendants, theatrical agents,
stage doorkeepers, the editors of society papers—scores
of people would have known her, and he would have
an easy task to learn her name and her history.</p>

<p>He jumped up and kissed his wife. “By Jove, Emily!
You’re a fair wonder,” he cried warmly, and she, still
placidly knitting, unsuccessfully attempted to hide the
affection and admiration she felt for him by a trite remark
anent the folly of an old fool.</p>

<p>Next morning, French, with a new and thoroughly
satisfactory programme before him, sallied forth at quite
the top of his form. He had made a list of theatrical
agencies at which he intended first to apply, after which,
if luck had up to then eluded him, he would go round the
theatres and have a word with the stage door keepers,
finally applying to the older actor-managers and producers
and any one else from whom he thought he might
gain information.</p>

<p>But his quest turned out to be even simpler than he
had dared to hope. The superior young ladies of the
first three agencies at which he called shook their pretty
heads over the photograph and could throw no light on
his problem. But at the fourth, the girl made a suggestion
at which French leaped.</p>

<p>“No,” she said, “I don’t know any one like that, but
if she’s left the stage some time I wouldn’t; I’ve only
been here about two years. And I don’t know any one
who could help you; this place has not been open very
long. But I’ll tell you,” she went on, brightening up.
“Mr. Rohmer is inside. If any one in London would
know, he should. If you catch him coming out you
could ask him.”</p>

<p>Mr. Horace Rohmer! The prince of producers!
French knew his name well, though he had never met
him. He thanked the girl and sat down to wait.</p>

<p>Presently she called to him, “He’s just going,” and
French, stepping forward, saw a short, stout, rather
Jewish-looking gentleman moving to the stairs. He
hastened after him, and, introducing himself, produced
his photograph and asked his question.</p>

<p>The famous producer glanced at the card and smiled.</p>

<p>“Oh, Lor’ yes,” he announced, “I know her. But
these people wouldn’t.” He indicated the agency and
its personnel with a backward nod. “She was before
their time. Why, that’s the great Cissie Winter; at least,
she had the makings of being great at one time. She
was first lady in Panton’s company a dozen years ago or
more. I remember her in <span class="it">Oh, Johnny!</span>, <span class="it">The Duchess</span>,
<span class="it">The Office Girl</span>, and that lot—good enough plays in their
day, but out of date now. I hope she’s not in trouble?”</p>

<p>“It’s a matter of stolen diamonds,” French answered,
“but I’m not suggesting she is guilty. We want some
explanations, that’s all.”</p>

<p>“I should be sorry to hear there was anything wrong,”
Mr. Rohmer declared. “I thought a lot of her at one
time, though she did go off and make a muck of things.”</p>

<p>“How was that, sir?”</p>

<p>“Some man. Went off to live with some man, a married
man, and well on to being elderly. At least, that was
the story at the time. I’m not straight-laced, and I
shouldn’t have minded that if she had only kept up her
stage work. But she didn’t. She just dropped out of
sight. And she might have risen to anything. A promising
young woman lost. Sickening, I call it.”</p>

<p>“I suppose you could give me no hint as to how I might
trace her?”</p>

<p>The producer shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p>“Not the slightest, I’m afraid. I didn’t even know
that she was alive.”</p>

<p>“What theatres did she play in?”</p>

<p>“Several, but it was in the Comedy she did her best
work.”</p>

<p>“I’ll try there.”</p>

<p>“You can try, but don’t build too much on it. Theatrical
staffs change quickly and have short memories. If
you’ve no luck there you should go to Jacques—you
know, Richard Jacques the producer. If my memory
serves me, he put out those plays I mentioned. If not,
he can tell you who did.”</p>

<p>French was overjoyed. This was indeed a stroke of
luck. He had proved his theory—he was already beginning
to overlook the part his wife had played in it—he
had done a neat piece of deduction, and it had been
justified. He had now obtained information which must
lead him infallibly to his goal. His next business must be
at the Comedy, where, if his luck held, he might obtain
information which would put him straight on the woman’s
track.</p>

<p>As he turned away from the agency, French felt a
touch on his shoulder. It was Mr. Duke, and the old
gentleman greeted him warmly and asked of his progress.</p>

<p>“I’m just going in here for some coffee,” he went on,
indicating the somewhat old-fashioned and retiring restaurant
before which they stood. “Come and have a cup
with me. It’s ages since I saw you or heard what you
were doing.”</p>

<p>French was full of his discovery, and eagerly seized the
chance of a victim to whom to unfold the tale of his
prowess. Accordingly, when they were seated in a quiet
nook he began with gusto to relate his exploits. He told
of his visit to Mürren, and of the photographs given to
him by Mrs. Root, of his tracing the movements of the
elusive lady in Southampton, of his deduction that she
was an actress, and finally of his great stroke in learning
her identity.</p>

<p>Mr. Duke, who had been following the recital with a
thrilled interest that satisfied even French’s egotism, remembered
the lady’s name, though he could not recall
anything else about her.</p>

<p>“This will be good news for Vanderkemp,” he declared.
“I must tell him at once. Though you have taken off
your surveillance, he feels that he has never really been
cleared of suspicion. This discovery of yours will go far
to satisfy him. Yes, and what then?”</p>

<p>He settled himself again to listen, but when he realised
that French had finished his tale and was no nearer
finding Miss Cissie Winter than he had been of getting
hold of Mrs. X, his features took on an expression of
the keenest disappointment, bordering almost on despair.</p>

<p>“Good heavens, Inspector! After raising my hopes,
don’t tell me now that you are really practically no
farther on,” he lamented. Then sinking his voice, he
went on slowly, “If something isn’t discovered soon I
may tell you I don’t know what I’m going to do. I’m
getting to the end of my tether. I’m even getting short
of cash. The insurance company won’t pay—yet; they
say it is not certain the stones will not be recovered.
They say I must wait. But my creditors won’t wait.”</p>

<p>He stopped and stared before him vacantly, and
French, looking at him more keenly than he had yet
done, was shocked to see how old and worn the man was
looking. “Even if the insurance company paid all, I
don’t know that I could make ends meet,” he went on
presently. “I’m beginning to see ruin staring me in the
face. I thought I was strong and could scoff at reverses,
but I can’t, Inspector, I can’t. I’m not the man
I was, and this affair has shaken me severely.”</p>

<p>French was somewhat taken aback by this outburst,
but he felt genuinely sorry for the old man, who at the
close of a life of comparative luxury and success was
faced with failure and poverty. He gave him what comfort
he could, pointing out that the discovery of Mrs.
X’s identity was a real step forward, and expressed the
belief that so well known a personality could not long
remain hidden.</p>

<p>“I sincerely trust you are right,” Mr. Duke answered,
“and I am ashamed of having made such a fuss. But
do try, Inspector,” he looked imploringly at the other,
“do try to push on the affair. I know you are,” he smiled,
“doing all that any one could do, but it’s so desperately
important to me. You understand, I hope, that I am not
complaining? I fully appreciate your splendid work in
the face of great difficulties.”</p>

<p>French assured him that he himself was just as anxious
to clear up the mystery as any one else could be, and
that he need not fear but that everything possible would
be done to that end, and with further expressions of
mutual amity they parted.</p>

<p>The Inspector next turned his steps to the Comedy
theatre. Rehearsals were in progress, and the building
was open. Going round to the stage door, he spoke to
the doorkeeper.</p>

<p>“No, sir,” the man said civilly, “I’m not here long.
Only about nine months.”</p>

<p>“Who was before you?”</p>

<p>“A man they called Dowds, an old man. He was getting
too old for the job. That’s why he left.”</p>

<p>“Could you put me on to where I should find him?”</p>

<p>“I should try at the office, sir. I expect they’d have
his address. To the right at the end of this passage.”</p>

<p>With some difficulty French found his way to the office.
A young man glanced up from the desk over which he
was bending. “Well, sir?” he said briskly.</p>

<p>French explained his business. He was inquiring as
to the whereabouts of the former actress, Miss Cissie
Winter, and failing information as to her, he would be
obliged for the address of the ex-stagedoor keeper, Dowds,
who might be able to assist him in his main inquiry.</p>

<p>“Miss Cissie Winter?” the sharp young man repeated.
“I’ve heard of her, but she wasn’t on here in my time.
Any idea of her dates or plays?”</p>

<p>“Twelve or more years since she left the stage, I’m
told. She played in <span class="it">The Office Girl</span> and <span class="it">The Duchess</span> and
<span class="it">Oh, Johnny!</span>”</p>

<p>The young man whistled beneath his breath as he
sat thinking.</p>

<p>“ ’Fraid I can’t help you about the lady,” he declared
at last. “There are no records here of twelve years
back. But I can put you on to Dowds all right, or at
least I can give you his address when he left us.”</p>

<p>“Much obliged, I’m sure.”</p>

<p>The young man crossed the room, and taking a book
out of a cupboard, turned over the pages rapidly.</p>

<p>“29 Babcock Street. It’s off Charing Cross Road,
about half-way down on the left hand side going south.
You’ll get him there if he hasn’t moved.”</p>

<p>French, having noted the address, turned to go.</p>

<p>“Wait a sec’,” said the young man. “I’m not certain,
but I believe Richard Jacques put out those plays you
mentioned. If so, he could probably help you better
than any one. He does business at that new place he
has taken over, the Aladdin in Piccadilly. You should
try him.”</p>

<p>French thanked his new friend, and after again traversing
the endless corridors of the huge building, found
himself once more in the street.</p>

<p>At 29 Babcock Street the door was opened to him by
a respectable-looking woman, who said that her husband,
Peter Dowds, was within. His health was poor, but if
the gentleman would come in, he would make shift to
come down to see him.</p>

<p>French sat down to wait in the tiny parlour. Presently
a shuffling became audible in the hall, and the door,
opening slowly, revealed a short but immensely stout man,
whose small eyes blinked inquisitively at his visitor as
the latter rose and wished him good-day.</p>

<p>“Good-day, good-day,” the man wheezed, as he steered
himself across the room and sank into one of the chairs.
“It’s the asthma,” he went on in a husky voice. “It’s
always bad this time of year.” He stopped and sat panting,
then went on, “You wanted to see me?”</p>

<p>“Yes,” French admitted, “but I’m sorry to find your
asthma so bad. What do you do for it?”</p>

<p>The Inspector had found from long experience that
the time spent in discussing his illness with an invalid was
not wasted. The pleasure he gave had the effect of creating
a sympathy and good feeling which assisted him when
he came to the second part of the interview, the favour
he wanted for himself. He was not altogether a hypocrite
in this. It was part of the technique of his business,
and besides, he was a good-natured man who really did
like giving pleasure. He therefore talked asthma and
asthma cures for some minutes before turning to the
subject of Miss Cissie Winter.</p>

<p>But in the present case the excellent impression which
he undoubtedly produced brought him but little benefit.
The stout old doorkeeper remembered Miss Winter well,
and instantly recognised her photograph, but he knew
nothing about her present whereabouts. She had gone
off with some man, a man whom also he remembered well,
as on many occasions they had chatted together while
the former waited at the stage door for the lady’s appearance.
He was tall and well built, well on in middle
age, and with the air of a professional or business man.
His name, Dowds believed, was Vane, but of this he was
not positive. Asked how he knew that the lady had gone
off with this or any other man, it transpired that he did
not really know at all, but that this had been the generally
accepted theory at the time. He had never learned the
man’s address, but he seemed to have plenty of money
and was liberal in his tips. Since that time, about thirteen
years previously, Dowds had not heard or seen anything
of either. Of Miss Winter he had but a poor opinion.
She might be a good actress, but she was hard and
mean and had a sharp tongue. What the man could
have seen in her he, Dowds, did not know, but he had
evidently been pretty completely bowled over.</p>

<p>When French had gleaned these particulars, he found
he had reached the end of the old doorkeeper’s usefulness,
and he was soon on his way to his next call, the
Aladdin theatre in Piccadilly.</p>

<p>Mr. Jacques was in the building, but engaged, and
French fretted and fumed for nearly two hours before
being ushered into his presence. But then he felt himself
completely compensated for his long wait. Like most
others who came in contact with him, French soon fell a
victim to the great producer’s winning personality and
charm of manner. The old gentleman apologised
courteously for his engagement, which, he explained, was
a troublesome rehearsal, and then listened with close attention
to what French had to say.</p>

<p>But he could not tell so very much after all. He remembered
Miss Winter, and after a search through some
details of her life. He had first seen her in the Tivoli
theatre in New York, some sixteen years previously, and
had been struck by her acting. She had somehow learned
of his presence, for she had followed him to his hotel, and
explaining that she was anxious to get a footing on the
English stage, had asked him for a part in one of the
plays she had heard he was then bringing out. He had
agreed, and when she had completed her New York engagement,
she had followed him to England, and he had
starred her in <span class="it">Oh, Johnny!</span> and certain other plays of that
period. In all she had appeared in seven productions,
and Mr. Jacques had a high opinion of her capabilities.</p>

<p>Some three years later she had given him notice that
she wished to leave the stage at the end of her then current
contract. He had protested, telling her that she was
ruining an extremely promising career, but she had insisted,
explaining that she was going to be married. This
he had not believed, though he had no definite reason
for his opinion. It was generally accepted that she had
gone off with some married man, but how this story arose
he could not say. He had, at all events, completely lost
sight of her. Her age when she left his company thirteen
years earlier was twenty-nine, and her address was 17
Stanford Street, Chelsea.</p>

<p>“I’m afraid,” French said, “that she has turned crook,”
and he outlined her impersonation of Mrs. Root.</p>

<p>“Of course I know nothing about that,” Mr. Jacques
answered, “but I can at least tell you that no one could
have carried out a scheme of the kind better than Cissie
Winter. She had the brains and the nerve and the knowledge.
I’m sorry to hear she has gone wrong, but if you
are up against her, I can assure you you’ll find her no
mean antagonist.”</p>

<p>French smiled ruefully as he rose.</p>

<p>“I’ve discovered that already,” he admitted, “but
knowing what I know now, it can’t be long until I have
my hands on her.”</p>

<p>“I suppose I ought to wish you luck,” Mr. Jacques
declared, holding out his hand, “but I don’t know that
I can. I thought a lot of the young woman once, and
I’m sorry that she’s in trouble.”</p>

<p>Inspector French, having cabled to the New York
police asking for information as to the actress’s early
history, made his way to 17 Stanford Street, which he
found was a better-class boarding house. But here he
could learn nothing. The former proprietor was dead,
and none of the present staff had been connected with
the place for thirteen years, or had ever heard of Miss
Winter.</p>

<p>Disappointed once more, he returned to the Yard
and put through his earlier scheme. He arranged to
have the lady’s photograph inserted in the next number
of the <span class="it">Police Bulletin</span>, together with the best description
of her that he could write, and a note that she was
wanted. It was not a promising clue, but it was all he
had left.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</span><span epub:type="label">TRAGEDY</span></h2>

<p>Some days later Inspector French was once again sent for
by his chief. The great man seemed in an irritable frame
of mind, and he began to speak before the other had
well entered the room.</p>

<p>“See here, French,” he greeted him; “here’s a fresh
development in that confounded Gething case. Read
that.”</p>

<p>French stepped up to the desk and took the postal
telegraph sheets his superior held out. They bore a
message from the Chief of Police at the Hook, which
had been sent out at 8.27 that morning.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“Captain of the S. S. <span class="it">Parkeston</span> reports that tall,
cleanshaven, white-haired man, apparently named
Duke, committed suicide during passage from Harwich
last night. Overcoat and suitcase found in cabin
with letter addressed Miss Duke, The Cedars, Hampstead.
Am sending letter with detailed statement.”</p>

</div>

<p>French was considerably surprised by the news.
Though he had never felt actually cordial towards the
old gentleman, he had respected him for his kindly conduct
towards his subordinates and for the sportsmanlike
way in which he had taken his loss. But it was evident
the man had been hit harder than he had shown. French
recalled the details of their last interview, the merchant’s
drawn, anxious face, his weary air, his almost despairing
words, “I’m getting to the end of my tether. I see
ruin staring me in the face.” At the time, French had
not taken the complaint as seriously as it had now proved
to warrant. Mr. Duke was evidently in difficulties which
nothing less than the return of the stolen diamonds would
solve, and French did not see how he could have done more
to achieve that end than he already had.</p>

<p>“Unexpected, that, isn’t it?” the chief remarked,
“though I don’t suppose it will really affect the case.”</p>

<p>“No, sir, I don’t think it will,” French returned,
answering the last part of the sentence first. “But I don’t
know that it’s so unexpected after all. Leastwise it is
and it isn’t. I mean, I’m surprised that a man of Mr.
Duke’s character should take that way of escaping from
his difficulties, but I knew he was in difficulties.”</p>

<p>The chief raised his eyebrows.</p>

<p>“You didn’t tell me that.”</p>

<p>“The truth is, sir, that I didn’t take what the old gentleman
said seriously enough. I met him last week in
Piccadilly, and he appeared anxious to hear my news
and asked me to have a cup of coffee with him. He was
pretty down in the mouth then, saying he was getting
short of cash, and near the end of his tether, and so on.
He was looking pretty old, too, old and worn.”</p>

<p>The chief grunted.</p>

<p>“As I say, I don’t suppose it will make any difference,”
he declared. “But there’s that girl to consider. I think
you’d better go along and see her. After all, she should
have some warning before she sees it in the paper.”</p>

<p>“That’s so, sir. Then I shall go now.”</p>

<p>It was a job he hated, but there was no help for it, and
having ’phoned to Miss Duke that he was going out on
urgent business, he set off.</p>

<p>That his message had alarmed her was obvious. She
met him with pale cheeks and anxious eyes, and once
again the thought occurred to him that she knew something
that she was holding back, and had feared her
secret was the subject of his call.</p>

<p>But his news, when haltingly and with some awkwardness
he had succeeded in conveying it, took her utterly
by surprise. It was evidently quite different to what
she had expected to hear, and the poor girl was terribly
overcome. She gave a low cry, and sat gazing at him
with eyes dilated with horror. The shock seemed utterly
to have benumbed her, and yet French could not help
thinking that her emotion contained also an element of
relief. He was profoundly sorry for her, but his suspicion
remained.</p>

<p>Presently she began to speak. Her voice was dull and
toneless as she explained that she had known her father
was lately terribly worried and unhappy, and that though
he had made light of it, he had told her enough to show
that financial trouble was at the root of his distress. He
had said to her on one occasion that if only the insurance
people would pay, things would be easier, but he had
spoken cheerily, and she had had no idea things were
so serious.</p>

<p>“When shall we get details?” she asked presently.
“Should I go over to the Hook?”</p>

<p>“I fear there would be little use in that,” French
answered, “and it would certainly be painful for you. Of
course, I don’t wish to dissuade you; if you think it would
be an ease to your mind you should go. But in any case
would it not be better to wait until you read your letter?
Besides, the report from the Dutch police may show that
a visit is unnecessary.”</p>

<p>She thought for some seconds, then agreed. French
explained that the documents might be expected by the
first post on the following morning, and promised to take
them out to Hampstead immediately.</p>

<p>“In the meantime, Miss Duke,” he went on, with real
kindness in his tone, “it’s not my business, of course, but
would you not be better to have some one in the house
with you—some lady friend, an aunt, a cousin? Or Mr.
Harrington? I mean, is there anything that I can do to
take a message or send a wire?”</p>

<p>Her eyes filled with tears as she thanked him and asked
him to telephone to the office for Harrington. It appeared
that she had no near relations. She was an only child,
and her father was now dead, and French knew that for
many years her poor mother had been worse than dead,
dragging out a colourless existence in a mental hospital at
Otterham.</p>

<p>When he had put through his call, French took his
leave. There was nothing more to be done until the details
of the tragedy were received.</p>

<p>As he sat in the tube on his way back to the Yard, he
was conscious of some misgivings as to the way in which
he had handled the interview. He had done his best to
make it easy for Miss Duke. This was, of course, the
natural and the kindly thing to do, but was it his duty?
Should he not rather have used the news as a lever to
startle some admission out of the girl which would have
given him the information which he suspected she possessed.
If he had allowed a promising clue to slip he had
neglected his duty and injured himself. And his chief
was no fool. He would unfailingly see the possibility and
ask what use had been made of it.</p>

<p>But though French felt thus a trifle uneasy, he could
not bring himself to regret his course of action. He was
not only a man of natural kindliness of heart, but he had
the gift of imagination. He saw himself in the girl’s
place, and was glad he had not added to her trouble.</p>

<p>Next morning the report came from Holland, together
with Miss Duke’s letter. The former was a long document
giving very complete details of the tragedy. The
essential portions of it read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:2em;">“4th January.</p>

<p>“At 7.21 to-day a telephone message was received
from the Harwich boat wharf office at the Hook that
a passenger had disappeared during the crossing under
circumstances which pointed to suicide. Inspector
Van Bien was sent down to make inquiries, and he
obtained the following information:</p>

<p>“Some little time before the boat berthed, the
stewards, according to custom, went round the staterooms
to arouse the passengers. There was no reply
from stateroom N, a single-berth cabin on the port side,
and when John Wilson, the steward in question,
had knocked a second time, he looked in. The cabin
was empty, but bore evidence of having been occupied.
The bed had been lain on, though not slept in, a large
suitcase was on the floor, and various articles of a
man’s toilet were scattered about. The steward, thinking
the traveller, whom he remembered to be a white-haired
old man, was perhaps on deck, passed on. About
half an hour later he looked in again, to find things in
the same condition. He was engaged until after the
boat berthed, but when the passengers were going
ashore he went back to the stateroom, and again found
everything as before. Becoming anxious, he reported
the matter to the chief steward. The latter accompanied
Wilson to cabin N, and they made a search.
They found a half-sheet of paper and an envelope
propped behind the tumbler in the little wooden shelf
above the washstand basin. The former bore the
words:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“ ‘Financial embarrassments having made my life
impossible, I am going to make an end of it to-night.
I shall simply drop off the ship, and my death will be
quick and easy. Please oblige by posting my letter.</p>

<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:2em;">“ ‘<span class="sc">R. A. Duke.</span>’</p>

</div>

<p>“The letter was addressed to ‘Miss Duke, The
Cedars, Hampstead, London.’ Both note and letter
are enclosed herewith.</p>

<p class="line"> </p>

<p>“The tickets on this route are dealt with as follows:
There is no check on passengers leaving the wharf, as
this would entail too long a delay at the gangway. On
coming on board, passengers apply at the chief steward’s
office, have their tickets either collected or
punched, and get their berth numbers and a landing
ticket. The landing tickets are collected as the
travellers go ashore, and this constitutes the check
that all have paid for their passage. On the occasion
in question, 187 landing tickets were given out, and
only 186 were collected, showing that one of the
passengers who came aboard at Harwich did not go
ashore at the Hook.</p>

<p>“A search of the ship revealed no trace of the
missing man, nor had any one seen him passing through
the corridors or on the deck during the night. The
chief steward recalled his application for his berth,
which had been reserved in advance, and remembered
having noticed that the old man was absent-minded,
and seemed to be suffering from acute repressed excitement.</p>

<p>“The suitcase was found to contain articles of toilet
and clothing suitable for an absence of three or four
days, but nothing to throw any further light on the
tragedy. We are sending it to you for transmission to
Miss Duke, to whom presumably it belongs.”</p>

</div>

<p>When Inspector French had read the report he turned
his attention to the letter. The envelope was square and
of good quality paper, and the address was in Mr. Duke’s
handwriting. French sat turning it over. He wondered. . . .
He would rather not, but on second thoughts
he believed he ought. . . . There might be something
that would give him a hint. . . .</p>

<p>He took a Gillette razor blade from his drawer, and
inserting it beneath the gummed flap, worked it this way
and that. In a moment the envelope was open, and he
drew out a letter and cautiously unfolded it. It also
was written by Mr. Duke, and read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“<span class="sc">My Dearest Sylvia</span>,</p>

<p>“When you receive this you will have heard what
I am about to do. My dear, I will not try to justify
myself; I suppose I should be brave and fight to the
end. But I just couldn’t bear the ruin and disgrace
which face me. Even before the robbery things were
not going too well. As you know, the war hit businesses
like mine worse than most. Now, even if the
insurance company paid, I shouldn’t get clear; I should
still be many thousands in debt. Sylvia, don’t think
too hardly of me, but I couldn’t face it. Loss of position,
friends, home, everything—and at my time of
life. I just couldn’t.</p>

<p>“But chiefly I couldn’t bear dragging you down with
me. You will be free from that now. Your mother’s
jointure cannot be touched; it is hers—and yours.
You will see that all expenses for her are paid, and
the remainder will be yours. Of course the house
must go, but you will have enough to live on. You
will marry; I trust soon. Remember that it is my last
wish and my last charge to you that you marry the
man of your choice as soon as may be convenient.
Though we have not always seen eye to eye, you have
been a good daughter to me.</p>

<p>“Dear Sylvia, try not to take this too much to heart.
I face the future, if there is one, without misgivings.
Though the way I take may be the coward’s way, it
is the easiest and the best way for us all.</p>

<p>“Good-bye, my dearest girl, and if there be a God,
may He bless you.</p>

<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:6em;">“Your devoted father,</p>
<p class="line0" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;">“<span class="sc">R. A. Duke</span>.”</p>

</div>

<p>Inspector French had a slight feeling of shame as he
refolded this unhappy epistle and, working deftly and
mechanically, regummed the flap of the envelope and
stuck it down. He was disappointed to find that the
letter contained no helpful information, and with a sigh
he set out to bear his news to Hampstead.</p>

<p>Miss Duke and Harrington were anxiously awaiting
him, and he handed the former both the report and the
letter, saying he would wait if she cared to read them in
another room. She remained calm and collected, but the
pallor of her face and dark rings beneath her eyes indicated
the tension under which she was labouring. She
withdrew with a word of apology, Harrington accompanying
her, and French sat thinking, wondering if a direct
question, unexpectedly sprung upon them, might surprise
one or other into some unguarded admission which would
give him a hint of the secret which he believed they held.</p>

<p>But when they returned some half-hour later, Miss
Duke momentarily disarmed him by holding out her letter.</p>

<p>“You had better read that,” she said. “You may want
to see it and there is nothing private in it.”</p>

<p>French was momentarily tempted to confess his action
with the safety razor, but he saw that he must not divulge
police methods, and taking the letter, he reread it and
handed it back with a word of thanks.</p>

<p>“Did your father say he was going to Holland?” he
inquired.</p>

<p>“Yes, it was one of his usual trips to the Amsterdam
office. He expected to be away for two or three days.
But I now think he had made up his mind—about—this—before
he left. He said good-bye——”</p>

<p>She paused, her lip trembling, then suddenly flinging
herself down on the sofa, burst into an uncontrollable
flood of tears. “Oh!” she cried brokenly, “if only it
hadn’t taken place at sea! I can’t bear to think of him—out
there——” She sobbed as if her heart would break.</p>

<p>French saw that she had settled the matter of his
procedure. In her present condition he could not probe
her with subtle questions. There was nothing for it but
to take his departure, and this he did as unobtrusively as
he could, leaving her in Harrington’s charge.</p>

<p>He wondered who would take Mr. Duke’s place in
the firm, with whom he would have to deal if his efforts to
trace the missing diamonds became successful, and determined
to call at the office and make some inquiries. He
therefore took the tube to the City, and some half-hour
later was mounting the steps of the Hatton Garden establishment.</p>

<p>Mr. Schoofs had already taken charge, and saw his
visitor in his late principal’s office. The business, he
believed, would belong to Miss Duke, though he had no
actual reason to say so. However, Messrs. Tinsley &amp;
Sharpe of Lincoln’s Inn were the deceased gentleman’s
solicitors, and no doubt fuller information could be obtained
from them.</p>

<p>“I came over last night, and am just carrying on in the
meantime,” he explained, “and you can deal either with
me or with Mr. Tinsley.”</p>

<p>“Thanks,” French answered. “Then I shall deal with
you.”</p>

<p>“We’re really closed for business to-day, you understand,”
went on Mr. Schoofs. “I’m merely taking the
opportunity to go through Mr. Duke’s papers and see
how things stand. If only Harrington had had his partnership,
it would be his job, but as it is, everything devolves
on me.”</p>

<p>French, having replied suitably, made a move to go,
but he lingered and went on:</p>

<p>“Unexpected, the old man going off like that, wasn’t
it? I shouldn’t have thought he was that kind at all.”</p>

<p>Mr. Schoofs made a gesture of commiseration.</p>

<p>“Nor was he,” he agreed, “but it’s not so surprising
after all. You possibly didn’t see him during the last
week or two, but I can tell you, he was in a bad way;
very depressed, and getting worse every day. I don’t
think he was well—I mean in health, and I think it reacted
on his mind. He was worrying over the loss of his
money.”</p>

<p>“Was he really bankrupt?”</p>

<p>Mr. Schoofs had not the figures, but he very gravely
feared it. It was a bad lookout for his daughter. Indeed,
it was a bad lookout for them all. It was hard lines on
elderly men when they had to give up their jobs and start
life again. It was that damned war, responsible for this
as well as most of the troubles of the times. It had probably
made a difference to the Inspector also?</p>

<p>“Lost my eldest,” said French gruffly, and turned the
conversation back to the late principal. He was, it seemed,
going to Amsterdam on routine business. He had no
stones with him, and there was therefore nothing to suggest
that his disappearance could have been due to other
than suicide.</p>

<p>French had not really doubted the conclusions of the
Dutch police, but the death by violence of a man bearing
a packet of great value is always suspicious, and he was
glad to be sure such had not obtained in this instance.</p>

<p>His next visit was to Messrs. Tinsley &amp; Sharpe, the
Lincoln’s Inn solicitors. Mr. Tinsley was the sole surviving
partner, and to him French was presently admitted.</p>

<p>It appeared that Mr. Duke had left everything to
Sylvia, “Though, poor girl,” Mr. Tinsley added, “by all
accounts that won’t be much.” Mr. Tinsley was executor,
therefore any further dealings French might have about
the robbery would be with him. Mr. Duke and he had
been old friends; in fact, he had been Mr. Duke’s best
man, he didn’t like to think how many years previously.
He had been shocked by the change in the old gentleman
when three days prior to his death he had called to see
him. He seemed ill and depressed, and had said, “I’m
not feeling well, Tinsley. It’s my heart, I’m afraid, and
this confounded worry about money matters,” and had
gone on to obtain the solicitor’s promise to look after
Sylvia “if anything happened.”</p>

<p>“In the light of what has since taken place,” Mr.
Tinsley concluded, “I am afraid he had made up his mind
then that suicide was the easiest way out, though I was
terribly surprised and shocked when I heard of it.”</p>

<p>“I am sure of that, sir,” French answered as he rose
to go. “Then if any further developments occur about
the robbery, I shall communicate with you.”</p>

<p>He returned to the Yard, made his report, and when he
had attended to a number of routine matters, found it
was time to knock off work for the day.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</span><span epub:type="label">THE HOUSE IN ST. JOHN’S WOOD</span></h2>

<p>It was one of Inspector French’s most constant grumbles
that a man in his position was never off duty. He might
come home after a hard day’s work looking forward to
a long, lazy, delightful evening with a pipe and a book,
and before he had finished supper some development at
headquarters might upset all his plans and drag him off
forthwith to do battle with the enemies of his country’s
laws. Not for him was the eight-hour day, overtime at
high rates, “on call” or country allowances, expenses. . . . His
portion was to get his work done, or
take the consequences in lack of promotion or even loss
of such position as he held.</p>

<p>“And no thanks for what you carry off either,” he
would complain, “though if you make a slip you hear
about it before you’re an hour older.” But his eye would
twinkle as he said it, and most of his friends knew that
Mr. Inspector French was making an exceedingly good
thing out of his job, and was, moreover, destined by his
superiors for even greater and more remunerative responsibilities
in the early future.</p>

<p>But on this evening his grouse was illustrated, if not
justified. Scarcely had he sat down to his meal when a
ring came to the door, and he was told that Constable
Caldwell wished to speak to him.</p>

<p>“Let him wait,” Mrs. French answered before her better
half could speak. “Show him into the sitting-room, Eliza,
and give him the evening paper.”</p>

<p>French half rose, then sank back into his seat.</p>

<p>“Ask him if it’s urgent,” he called after the retreating
girl, partly from genuine curiosity, and partly to preserve
the fiction that he was master of his own movements in
his own house.</p>

<p>“It’s not so urgent as your supper. Just let him wait,”
Mrs. French repeated inexorably. “What difference will
a minute or two make anyway?”</p>

<p>Her view, it soon appeared, was upheld by the constable
himself.</p>

<p>“He says it’s not urgent,” Eliza corroborated, reappearing
at the door. “He can wait till you’re ready.”</p>

<p>“Very well. Let him wait,” French repeated, relieved
that the incident had ended so satisfactorily, and for
another fifteen minutes he continued steadily fortifying
the inner man. Then taking out his pipe, he joined his
visitor.</p>

<p>“ ’Evening, Caldwell. What’s wrong now?”</p>

<p>Caldwell, a tall, heavy-looking man of middle age, rose
clumsily to his feet and saluted.</p>

<p>“It’s that there circular of yours, sir,” he explained.
“I’ve found the woman.”</p>

<p>“The deuce you have!” French cried, pausing in the
act of filling his pipe and immediately keenly interested.
“Who is she?”</p>

<p>Caldwell drew his notebook from his pocket, and slowly
turned the well-thumbed pages. His deliberation irritated
his quicker-witted superior.</p>

<p>“Get along, Caldwell,” French grumbled. “Can’t you
remember that much without your blessed book?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir,” the man answered. “Here it is.” He read
from the book. “Her name is Mrs. Henry Vane, and
she lives in a small detached house in St. John’s Wood
Road; Crewe Lodge is the name.”</p>

<p>“Good!” French said heartily. “I suppose you’re sure
about it?”</p>

<p>“I think so, sir. I showed the photograph to three
different parties, and they all said it was her.”</p>

<p>This sounded promising, particularly as French remembered
that Dowds, the ex-doorkeeper at the Comedy,
had stated that Miss Winter’s admirer was named Vane.
He invited the constable to sit down and let him hear the
details, offering him at the same time a fill of tobacco.</p>

<p>Constable Caldwell subsided gingerly into a chair as he
took the proffered pouch.</p>

<p>“Thank you, sir, I don’t mind if I do.” He slowly
filled and lighted his pipe, ramming down the tobacco
with an enormous thumb. “It was this way, sir. I had
that there circular of yours with the woman’s photo in
my pocket when I went off duty early this afternoon. On
my way home I happened to meet a friend, a young lady,
and I turned and walked with her. For want of something
to say, so to speak, I showed her the photo, not
expecting anything to come of it, you understand. Well,
the moment she looked at it, ‘I know that there woman,’
she said. ‘You what?’ I said. ‘You know her? Who
is she, then?’ I said. ‘She’s a woman that comes into the
shop sometimes,’ she said, ‘but I don’t just remember
her name, though I have heard it,’ she said. ‘I should
say the young lady, her I was speaking to, worked in a
drapery shop until a couple of weeks ago, though she’s
out of a job at the moment. ‘Well,’ I said, ‘I’d like to
know her name. Can’t you remember it?’ ‘No,’ she said,
she couldn’t remember it. She’d only heard it once, and
hadn’t paid much attention to it.”</p>

<p>“Yes?” French murmured encouragingly as the constable
showed signs of coming to an end.</p>

<p>“I said that if she couldn’t remember, that maybe some
of the other young ladies might know it. She wasn’t
having any at first, for I had promised to take her to
tea and on to the pictures, and she was set on going. But
when she saw I was in earnest, she gave in, and we went
round to the shop she used to work in. After asking three
or four of the girls, we found one that remembered the
woman all right. ‘That’s Mrs. Vane,’ she said. ‘She
lives up there in St. John’s Wood; Crewe Lodge is the
name. I’ve made up her parcels often enough to know.’ ”</p>

<p>“Good,” French approved once more in his hearty voice.</p>

<p>“I thought I had maybe better make sure about it,”
went on the constable in his slow, heavy way, “so I asked
Miss Swann—that was the young lady that I was with—to
walk round that way with me. I found the house
near the Baker Street end, a small place and very shut in.
I didn’t want to go up and make inquiries, so I asked
Miss Swann if she’d go next door and ask if Mrs. Vane
was in. She went and asked, and they told her to go next
door; that was to Crewe Lodge. So when I saw it was
all right, I put off going to the pictures for this evening
and came straight here to tell you.”</p>

<p>French beamed on him.</p>

<p>“You’ve done well, Constable,” he declared. “In fact,
I couldn’t have done it better myself. I shall see that you
don’t lose by it. Take another fill of tobacco while I get
ready, and then call a taxi and we’ll go right out now.”</p>

<p>He rang up Scotland Yard, asking for certain arrangements
to be made, with the result that by the time he
and Constable Caldwell reached the great building, two
plain clothes men were waiting for them, one of whom
handed French a small handbag and a warrant for the
arrest of Mrs. Vane, alias Mrs. Ward, alias Mrs. Root of
Pittsburg, U. S. A. Then the four officers squeezing
into the taxi, they set off for St. John’s Wood Road.</p>

<p>Big Ben was striking half-past nine as they turned into
Whitehall. The night was fine, but there was no moon,
and outside the radius of the street lamps it was pitchy
dark. The four men sat in silence after French had in a
few words explained their errand to the newcomers. He
and Caldwell were both in a state of suppressed excitement,
French owing to the hope of an early solution of his
difficulties, the constable to the possibilities of promotion
which a successful issue to the expedition might involve.
The other two looked upon the matter as a mere extra
job of work, and showed a lamentable lack of interest
in the proceedings.</p>

<p>They pulled up at St. John’s Wood Road, and dismissing
the taxi, followed Constable Caldwell to the gate
of a carriage drive which there pierced the high stone wall
separating the houses from the street. On the upper bar
of the gate were the words, “Crewe Lodge.” To the
right hand was a wicket gate, but both it and the larger
one were closed. Inside the wall was a thick belt of trees
through which the drive curved back, and, lit up through
the interstices of the branches by the street lamps, the
walls and gable of a small house showed dimly beyond.
No light was visible from the windows, and, after a
moment’s hesitation, French opened the wicket gate and
all four entered.</p>

<p>“Wait here among the trees, Pye and Frankland,” he
whispered. “Caldwell, you come on with me.”</p>

<p>The drive was short, not more than forty yards long,
and the complete outline of the house was speedily revealed.
It seemed even smaller than the first glance had
shown, but was charmingly designed, with a broken-up
roof, large bow windows, and a tiny loggia into which
opened a glass panelled door. To be so near the centre
of a great city, it was extraordinarily secluded, the trees
and wall, together with some clumps of evergreen shrubs,
cutting off all view of the road and the neighbouring
houses.</p>

<p>The front of the house was in complete darkness, and
instinctively treading stealthily, the two men moved round
to the side. Here also there was no light, and they pushed
slowly on until they had completed the circuit and once
more reached the front door.</p>

<p>“Looks as if the place is empty,” French whispered
as he pressed the electric bell.</p>

<p>There was no response to his repeated rings. The
house remained dark and silent. French turned again to
the constable.</p>

<p>“Call up those other two men,” he ordered, and soon
Pye was posted at the corner between the front and side,
and Frankland at that diagonally opposite, with orders
to keep out of sight and to allow any one who came to
enter, but no one to leave the building.</p>

<p>Electric torch in hand, French then began a guarded
survey of the doors and windows. Finally fixing on the
door opening on the loggia, he made Caldwell hold the
light while, first with a bunch of skeleton keys, and then
with a bit of wire, he operated on the lock. For several
minutes he worked, but at last with a snap the bolt shot
back, and turning the handle, the two men cautiously
entered the room and closed the door behind them.</p>

<p>They found themselves in a small, expensively-furnished
sitting-room, evidently a lady’s. It was fitted
up in a somewhat flamboyant and pretentious manner, as
if costliness rather than good taste had been the chief
consideration in its furnishing. It was unoccupied, but
looked as if it had been recently used, there being ashes
in the grate and books lying about, one of which lay
open face downwards on a chair. On an occasional table
stood an afternoon tea equipage with one used cup.</p>

<p>French did not remain to make any closer examination,
but passed on to a tiny hall, off which opened three other
rooms, and from which the staircase led to the first floor.
Beneath the stairs was a row of clothes-hooks on which
were hanging a man’s garments, a couple of hats and
coats, and a waterproof.</p>

<p>Rapidly he glanced into the other rooms. The first was
a smoking-room, a man’s room, furnished with dark-coloured,
leather upholstery, and walls panelled in dark
oak. Next door was a dining-room, also small, but containing
a quantity of valuable silver. The fourth door
led to the kitchen, scullery, pantry, and yard. Here
also there were evidences of recent occupation in the
general untidiness, as well as in the food which these
places contained.</p>

<p>Satisfied that no one was concealed on the ground floor,
French led the way upstairs. In the largest bedroom,
evidently that of the mistress of the house, there was
a scene almost of confusion. Drawers and wardrobe lay
open, their contents tumbled and tossed, while the floor
was littered with dresses, shoes, and other dainty articles
of feminine apparel. French swore beneath his breath
when he saw the mess. Things were beginning to look
uncommonly like as if the bird had flown. However, it
was possible that some one might arrive at any minute,
and he hurriedly continued his search.</p>

<p>Next door was a man’s dressing-room and bedroom.
Here there was not the same litter, nor was the unoccupied
bedroom adjoining other than tidy, but in the
maids’ room, which he next entered, it was evident there
had been a recent clearing out. Here the wardrobe
drawers were pulled out and the door of a hanging press
in the wall was standing open. Papers and a few obviously
worn-out garments littered the floor. But the
room differed from Madame’s in that everything of
value had been taken.</p>

<p>French swore again. There seemed no doubt that he
was late. Mrs. X, alias Mrs. Vane, had taken fright
and fled. If so, what hint, he wondered, had she received
of her danger?</p>

<p>He stood for a moment in the disordered room, thinking.
Under these new circumstances, what was his proper
course?</p>

<p>First, it was obvious that he must make absolutely
sure that this Mrs. Vane was really the woman he sought.
Next, he must learn if she had really gone, and, if so,
why, and, if possible, where. If her departure was a
flight, he must find out how or by whom she had been
warned. Lastly, he must follow her to her hiding-place
and arrest her.</p>

<p>But he must not end with Mrs. Vane. Her husband
must also be found. If she was Mrs. X, the receiver of
the stolen diamonds, possibly the murderer of old Gething,
Mr. Vane must be in it, too. It was inconceivable
that he could have avoided becoming involved.</p>

<p>His first job must therefore be to make all the inquiries
he could as to the mysterious occupants of Crewe Lodge.
There were several obvious lines of research. First there
was the house itself. People left the impress of their
personalities on the houses they inhabited, and a careful
search of this one must yield considerable information as
to the pair. Next there were the servants. If they could
be found, their testimony might prove invaluable. From
the neighbours and local tradesmen and dealers he did
not expect so much, but among them all some useful hints
would surely be gleaned. Lastly, there were the house
agents. They might or might not be able to help.</p>

<p>It was by this time nearly eleven, but he decided that
his obvious duty was then and there to begin the search
of the house, even if it meant an all-night job. He therefore
called in Pye and Frankland, who were experienced
in such work, leaving Constable Caldwell to patrol the
grounds.</p>

<p>Then commenced an investigation of the most meticulous
and thorough description. Taking the house room
by room, the three men went over with the utmost care
every piece of furniture, every book, every paper, every
article of clothing. Hour after hour the search proceeded
in spite of a growing weariness and hunger, and it was not
until half-past six on the following morning that it was
complete. Then in the growing daylight the three Yard
men slipped out one by one on to the road, and joining
forces round the corner, walked to the nearest tube
station, and went to their several houses for breakfast.
French rang up the Yard from the first exchange they
came to, and arranged for a man to be sent to relieve
Caldwell, who had been left in charge.</p>

<p>As French smoked his after-breakfast pipe before returning
to the Yard, he jotted down in his notebook a list
of the points which had struck him during the search.
There was nothing that led him to either Mr. or Mrs.
Vane, but there was a certain amount that was suggestive.</p>

<p>In the first place, it seemed evident that the departure
of the lady had been sudden and unexpected. There
was the evidence of the disordered bedrooms, of the used-looking
sitting-room with the book evidently laid down
where it could be picked up again without losing the
place, of the ashes in the sitting-room fireplace and
range, the used tea tray, and of the kitchen. There it appeared
that cooking had been just about to begin, for a
number of saucepans were on the range, and various kinds
of food lay on the table as if ready for the saucepans.
There was a good deal of food of various kinds about the
kitchen and larder, and some wine and whisky in the
dining-room sideboard. On the other hand, there was no
evidence of any hurried departure on the part of the
master of the house.</p>

<p>The date of the departure French thought he could
roughly fix from the condition of the food. The milk,
of which there was a bowl and two jugs, was sour, but
not thick. Some fresh meat hanging in the larder was
good. The bread was rather dry and hard. Some lettuces
lying on a shelf in the scullery had gone limp. But
some bunches of chrysanthemums standing in water in
the sitting-room, were quite fresh.</p>

<p>On the whole, he thought the evidence pointed to a
flight some four days earlier, and this view was supported
by another piece of evidence on which he had
come.</p>

<p>In the letter box at the back of the hall door he had
found a letter addressed “Mrs. Vane, Crewe Lodge, St.
John’s Wood Road.” The postmark showed that it had
been posted in London on the 3rd. It had, therefore,
been delivered on the evening of the 3rd or morning of
the 4th. But this was the 8th. Therefore the lady had
gone at least four days earlier.</p>

<p>The letter itself had considerably intrigued him. It
was simply a list of certain sales and purchases of stock,
covering a large number of transactions, and running into
some thousands of pounds in value. The items were not
dated, and there was no accompanying letter nor any intimation
of the sender. It was clear that some one was
engaged in complicated financial operations, but there
was nothing to indicate his or her identity.</p>

<p>That the Vanes were at least comfortably off seemed
certain from the general appointments of the house. The
furniture and fittings were heavy and expensive. The
sitting-room was small, as has been stated, but French
reckoned that the carpet would not have been bought for
less than £120. Madame’s dresses were of rich silks, and
while no actual jewellery had been left behind, there were
costly ornaments and personal knick-knacks. Moreover,
the half-empty box of cigars in the smoking-room contained
Corona Coronas. There was, however, no garage
and no car, but it was obvious that a car might have
been kept at some neighbouring establishment. Altogether
it looked as if the couple had been living at the
rate of two or three thousand a year. But this was a
matter that could easily be tested, as the name of Mrs.
Vane’s bank was among her papers.</p>

<p>One other point struck the Inspector as curious.
Neither the master nor the mistress of the house seemed
to have literary tastes. There was a number of well-bound
“standard works” in a bookcase in the smoking-room,
but it was evident from their condition that they
were there purely as part of the decorative scheme. Of
actually read books in the smoking-room there were none.
In the sitting-room were a number of the lighter type of
novels, together with a number in French and Spanish
with extremely lurid and compromising jackets. But
among these, as out of place as an Elijah at a feast of
Baal, lay a new copy of <span class="it">The Concise Oxford Dictionary</span>.</p>

<p>There were several old bills in Madame’s inlaid davenport,
but save for the names of firms with whom the
lady had recently been dealing, French had learned
nothing from them. In the sitting-room also was an excellent
cabinet photograph of a lady who seemed to him
the original of Mrs. Root’s steamer snapshot, and this he
had slipped into his jacket pocket.</p>

<p>Having completed his notes, he knocked the ashes out
of his pipe and set out upon the business of the day.
Returning to St. John’s Wood Road, he interviewed Esler,
the constable who had been sent to relieve Caldwell, and
learned that no one had as yet approached the house.
Then he began to call at the adjoining houses and nearer
shops. At each he stated that he was looking for Mrs.
Vane, but that her house was shut up, and asked if any
one could tell him how he might find her.</p>

<p>Aware that in a great city neighbours might live beside
each other for years without ever meeting, he did
not hope for much result, and at the first two houses
at which he called he did not get any. But at the third
he had an unexpected stroke of luck. The maid who
opened the door seemed to know something about the
Vane household. But she was suspicious, and on French’s
putting his usual questions, showed evident unwillingness
to give away information. Keeping any suggestion of
eagerness out of his manner, French went on conversationally:</p>

<p>“I wanted to see Mrs. Vane about a question of the
ownership of a field in the country near Canterbury,
where she used to live. I represent Messrs. Hill &amp; Lewesham,
the solicitors of Lincoln’s Inn, and we want some
information about the boundaries of her father’s place.
It’s not exactly important, but it would be worth five
shillings to me to get in touch with her, and if you
could see your way to help me, you’d have very fairly
earned it.”</p>

<p>The girl seemed impressed. She glanced back into the
hall, came out into the porch, and drawing the door to
after her, spoke rather hurriedly.</p>

<p>“I don’t know much about it,” she explained, “but I’ll
tell you what I can,” and she went on to say that on the
previous Friday, that was five days earlier, Mrs. Vane
had got a cable that her husband in New York had met
with a serious accident and was dying, and for her to
go at once. She had packed hurriedly and driven off to
catch the boat train for Liverpool, closing the house.
As to Mr. Vane himself, the girl knew nothing. She
seemed to consider him a negligible part of the establishment.
He was but seldom at home, and even then was
rarely to be seen.</p>

<p>French asked her how it came that she knew so much
about the family, and she explained that she and Mrs.
Vane’s housemaid had become acquainted over her young
gentleman’s model aeroplane, which had flown over the
dividing wall into the grounds of Crewe Lodge, and which
had been ignominiously handed back by the girl in question.
As a result of the incident an acquaintance had
grown up between the two, in the course of which much
information as to their respective employers had been
exchanged. On that Friday evening Mrs. Vane’s maid
had called the narrator to the wall by means of a certain
signal which they had devised, and had hurriedly told
her of her mistress’s sudden call to America, and also that
the house was being closed and the services of herself and
the cook dispensed with. “She’s in a most terrible fluster
to catch the boat train,” the girl had said, “and we have
to be out before her so that she may lock up the house.”
The girl had breathlessly bid her friend good-bye and
had vanished.</p>

<p>Though French was delighted to have learned these
facts, they were not in themselves all that he could have
wished. The story of the husband in New York might
be true, in which case a good deal of the theory he had
been building up would fall to the ground. It would,
however, be an easy matter to find out whether the lady
really did sail on the date in question. He turned back
to the servant.</p>

<p>“I should like very much to find that friend of yours,”
he said. “Could you give me her name and address?”</p>

<p>Her name, it appeared, was Susan Scott, but her address
was not known. For a moment French was at
a loss, then by judicious questions he elicited the facts
that Miss Scott spoke like a Londoner, and that she probably
patronised one of the several registry offices to be
found in the region surrounding the Edgware Road.</p>

<p>“Now there is just one other thing,” he added. “Can
you tell me the name of the landlord or agents of Crewe
Lodge?”</p>

<p>The girl was sorry she couldn’t.</p>

<p>“Then of this house?” French persisted. “As they
are close together, the two places may belong to the same
man.”</p>

<p>The girl did not know that either, but she said that
her master would know, and that he had not yet gone out.
French asked for an interview, and on stating his identity,
received the information that the agents for both houses
were Messrs. Findlater &amp; Hynd, of Cupples Street, behind
the Haymarket.</p>

<p>Thinking he had got all the information he could,
French paid over his five shillings to the maid and took
his departure.</p>

<p>The next item on his programme was a visit to Mr.
Williams, and twenty minutes later he pushed open the
door of the office in Cockspur Street. Mr. Williams
greeted him with what with him took the place of enthusiasm.</p>

<p>“Good-day, Inspector,” he exclaimed, “I’m glad to
see you. You bring me some good news, I hope?”</p>

<p>French sat down and drew from his pocket the cabinet
photograph of Mrs. Vane which he had found in that
lady’s sitting-room.</p>

<p>“I don’t know, Mr. Williams,” he answered quietly,
“whether that will be news to you or not.”</p>

<p>Mr. Williams’s eyes flashed with excitement as he saw
the portrait.</p>

<p>“Bless my soul!” he cried. “Have you found her at
last? Mrs. Root!”</p>

<p>“That’s what I wanted to ask you. Are you sure it
is Mrs. Root?”</p>

<p>“Sure? Absolutely positive. At least, that’s the
woman who got my three thousand pounds, whatever her
name may be. Have you found her?”</p>

<p>“Well no,” French admitted. “I’ve not found her yet.
But I’m in hopes.”</p>

<p>“Tell me about it.”</p>

<p>“Unfortunately, there’s not much to tell. I’ve got information
to the effect that this woman, the original of
the photograph, left for New York last Friday. I don’t
know if it’s true. If it is, the American police will get
her on the ship.”</p>

<p>Mr. Williams pressed for details, but French was reticent.
However, before leaving he promised to let the
other know the result of his further inquiries.</p>

<p>From Cockspur Street it was but a short distance to
the office of the house agents, Messrs. Findlater &amp; Hynd.
Here French saw Mr. Hynd, and learned that the firm
were agents for Crewe Lodge. But beyond this fact he
learned little of interest and nothing helpful. The house
had been taken five years previously by Mrs. Vane,
though Mr. Vane had signed the lease. They were very
desirable tenants, paying their rent promptly and not
demanding continual repairs.</p>

<p>“One more call before lunch,” French thought, and
a few minutes later he turned into the office of the White
Star line. Here, though it did not exactly surprise him,
he received some information which gave him considerably
to think, and incidentally reassured him that at last
he was on the right track. No steamer, either of the
White Star or of any other line, had left Liverpool for
America before the previous Saturday afternoon, and
there was no boat train from Euston on the Friday night.</p>

<p>Mrs. Vane was therefore without any doubt the woman
of whom he was in search, and her departure was definitely
a flight.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</span><span epub:type="label">A HOT SCENT</span></h2>

<p>Inspector French had now so many points of attack
in his inquiry that he felt somewhat at a loss as to which
he should proceed with first. The tracing of Mrs. Vane
was the immediate goal, but it was by no means clear
which particular line of inquiry would most surely and
rapidly lead to that end. Nothing would be easier than
to spend time on side issues, and in this case a few hours
might make all the difference between success and failure.
The lady had already had five days’ start, and he could
not afford to allow her to increase her lead by a single
unnecessary minute.</p>

<p>He considered the matter while he lunched, eventually
concluding that the first step was the discovery of the
maid, Susan Scott. The preliminary spadework of this required
no skill and could be done by an assistant, leaving
himself free for other inquiries.</p>

<p>Accordingly he returned to the Yard and set two men
to work, one to make a list of all the registry offices in
the Edgware Road district, the other to ring up those
agencies one by one and inquire if the girl’s name was
on their books. Then he went in to see his chief, told
him of his discoveries, and obtained the necessary authority
to interrogate the manager of Mrs. Vane’s bank on
the affairs of that lady.</p>

<p>He reached the bank just before closing time and was
soon closeted with the manager. Mr. Harrod, once
satisfied that his usual professional reticence might in
this case be set aside, gave him some quite interesting
information. Mrs. Vane had opened an account with him
some five years earlier, about the same time, French noted,
as the house in St. John’s Wood Road had been leased.
Her deposit had not been large, seldom amounting to and
never exceeding a thousand pounds. It had stood at from
four to eight hundred until comparatively recently, but
within the past few months it had dwindled until some
ten weeks earlier it had vanished altogether. Indeed, the
payment of a cheque presented at this period had involved
an overdraft of some fifteen pounds, and the teller had
consulted Mr. Harrod before cashing it. Mr. Harrod,
knowing Crewe Lodge and the scale on which the Vanes
lived, had not hesitated in giving the necessary authority,
and his judgment had proved correct, for some three days
later Mrs. Vane had personally lodged over £100. This
had since been drawn upon, and there remained at the
present time a balance of eleven pounds odd in the lady’s
favour.</p>

<p>All this information seemed to French to work in with
the case he was endeavouring to make. The Vanes had
apparently been living beyond their income, or at least
Mrs. Vane had been living beyond hers, and she was
finding it increasingly difficult to make ends meet. He
did not see that any other interpretation of the dwindling
balance and the overdraft could be found. That overdraft
represented, he imagined, part of the lady’s ticket
to America. Then a hundred pounds was paid in on the
very next day, as he soon saw, to that on which Mr.
Williams had paid Mrs. X her £3000. Here was at least
a suggestion of motive for the robbery, and also the
first fruits of its accomplishment. Moreover the subsequent
withdrawal of all but a small balance, left doubtless
to disarm suspicion, would unquestionably work in
with the theory of flight. On the whole, French was well
pleased with the results of his call.</p>

<p>But he was even more pleased to find on his return to
the Yard that his assistants had located a registry office
whose books included the name of Susan Scott. By some
extraordinary chance, the very first call they made struck
oil. The men, of course, had realised that there must be
many Susan Scotts in London, but when they found that
this one had placed her name on the firm’s books on the
day after Mrs. Vane’s departure, they felt sure that they
were on the right track. They had not, therefore, proceeded
further with their inquiry, but had spent their
time trying to locate the Inspector with the object of
passing on the information with the minimum of delay.</p>

<p>The address was Mrs. Gill, 75 Horsewell Street,
Edgware Road, and thither before many minutes had
passed Inspector French was wending his way. The
registry office was a small concern, consisting of only
two rooms in a private house in a quiet street running
out of Edgware Road. In the outer were two young
women of the servant class, and these eyed French curiously,
evidently seeing in him a prospective employer.
Mrs. Gill was engaged with a third girl, but a few seconds
after French’s arrival she took her departure and he was
called into the private room.</p>

<p>The lady was not at first inclined to be communicative.
But when French revealed his profession and threatened
her with the powers and majesty of the law, she became
profusely apologetic and anxious to help. She looked
up her books and informed him that the girl was lodging
at No. 31 Norfolk Terrace, Mistletoe Road.</p>

<p>As it was close by, French walked to the place. Here
again his luck held in a way that he began to consider
almost uncanny. A tall, coarsely good-looking blonde
opened the door and announced in answer to his inquiry
that she herself was Miss Scott. Soon he was sitting
opposite to her in a tiny parlour, while she stared at him
with something approaching insolence out of her rather
bold eyes.</p>

<p>French, sizing her up rapidly, was courteous but firm.
He began by ostentatiously laying his notebook on the
table, opening it at a fresh page, and after saying, “Miss
<span class="it">Susan</span> Scott, isn’t it?” wrote the name at the head of the
sheet.</p>

<p>“Now, Miss Scott,” he announced briskly, “I am Inspector
French from Scotland Yard, and I am investigating
a case of murder and robbery.” He paused, and
seeing the girl was duly impressed, continued, “It happens
that your recent mistress, Mrs. Vane, is wanted to
give evidence in the case, and I have come to you for
some information about where to find her.”</p>

<p>The girl made an exclamation of surprise, and a look,
partly of fear and partly of thrilled delight, appeared in
her blue eyes.</p>

<p>“I don’t know anything about her,” she declared.</p>

<p>“I’m sure you know quite a lot,” French returned.
“All I want is to ask you some questions. If you answer
them truly, you have nothing to fear, but, as you probably
know, there are very serious penalties indeed for
keeping back evidence. You could be sent to prison for
that.”</p>

<p>Having by these remarks banished the girl’s look of
insolence and reduced her to a suitable frame of mind,
French got on to business.</p>

<p>“Am I right in believing that you have been until
last Friday house and parlourmaid to Mrs. Vane, of Crewe
Lodge, St. John’s Wood Road?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I was there for about three months.”</p>

<p>French, to assist not only his own memory but the impressiveness
of the interview, noted the reply in his book.</p>

<p>“Three months,” he repeated deliberately. “Very good.
Now, why did you leave?”</p>

<p>“Because I had to,” the girl said sulkily. “Mrs. Vane
was closing the house.”</p>

<p>French nodded.</p>

<p>“So I understood. Tell me what happened, please;
just in your own words.”</p>

<p>“She came in that afternoon shortly before four, all
fussed like and hurrying, and said she was leaving immediately
for New York. She said she had just had
a cable that Mr. Vane had had an accident there, and they
were afraid he wouldn’t get over it. She said for cook to
get her some tea while I helped her pack. She just threw
her clothes in her suitcases. My word, if I had done
packing like that I shouldn’t half have copped it! By
the time she’d finished, cook had tea ready, and while
mistress was having it, cook and I packed. I started to
clear away the tea things, but mistress said there wasn’t
time for that, for me just to leave them and run out and
get two taxis. She said there was a special for the
American boat that she must catch. So I got the taxis,
and she got into one and cook and I into the other, and
we drove away together, and that’s all I know about it.”</p>

<p>“What time was that?”</p>

<p>“About half-past four, I should think. I didn’t look.”</p>

<p>“Where did you get the taxis?”</p>

<p>“On the stand at the end of Gardiner Street.”</p>

<p>“Who gave Mrs. Vane’s taxi man his address?”</p>

<p>“I did. It was Euston.”</p>

<p>“It was rather hard lines on you and the cook, turning
you out like that at a moment’s notice. I hope she made
it up to you?”</p>

<p>Miss Scott smiled scornfully.</p>

<p>“That was all right,” she answered. “We told her
about it, and she gave us a fiver apiece, as well as our
month’s wages.”</p>

<p>“Not so bad,” French admitted. “Who locked up the
house?”</p>

<p>“She did, and took the key.”</p>

<p>“And what happened to you and cook?”</p>

<p>“We drove on here and I got out. This is my sister’s
house, you understand. Cook went on to Paddington.
She lives in Reading or somewhere down that way. Mrs.
Vane said that when she came back she would look us up,
and if we were disengaged we could come back to her.
But she said not to keep out of a place for her, as she
didn’t know how long she might have to stay in America.”</p>

<p>French paused in thought, then went on:</p>

<p>“Was Mrs. Vane much from home while you were with
her?”</p>

<p>“No, she was only away once. But she stayed over
three weeks that time. It’s a bit strange that it was an
accident, too. Her sister in Scotland fell and broke her
collar bone, so she told us, and she had to go to keep
house till she was better. Somewhere in Scotland, she
said.”</p>

<p>“When was that?”</p>

<p>The girl hesitated.</p>

<p>“I don’t know that I could say exactly,” she answered
at last. “She’s back about six weeks or two months, and
she left over three weeks before that, about a couple of
weeks after I went. Say about ten weeks altogether.”</p>

<p>This was distinctly satisfactory. Mrs. Vane’s absence
seemed to cover the period of Mrs. X’s visit to America.</p>

<p>“I should like to fix the exact dates if I could,” French
persisted, “or at least the date she came back. Just think,
will you, please. Is there nothing you can remember
by?”</p>

<p>The girl presumably thought, for she was silent for
some moments, but her cogitations were unproductive.
She shook her head.</p>

<p>“Did you stay in the house while she was away?”</p>

<p>“No. I came here and cook went home.”</p>

<p>This was better. The attention of a number of people
had been drawn to the date, and some one of them should
surely be able to fix it.</p>

<p>“On what day of the week did you go back?” French
prompted.</p>

<p>The girl considered this.</p>

<p>“It was a Thursday,” she said at last. “I remember
that now, because Thursday is my night out, and I remembered
thinking that that week I shouldn’t get it.”</p>

<p>French was delighted with the reply. It was on a
Thursday night, seven weeks earlier, that Mrs. X had
driven from the Savoy to Victoria, left her boxes there,
and vanished. The thing was working in.</p>

<p>“What time of the day did she arrive?”</p>

<p>“In the evening.” Miss Scott answered promptly this
time. “It was about half eight or a quarter to nine.”</p>

<p>Better and better! Mrs. X left the Savoy shortly before
eight, and it would take her about three-quarters of
an hour to drive to Victoria, leave her trunks in the left
luggage office, and get out to St. John’s Wood Road.</p>

<p>“Now,” French went on, “if you or your sister could
just remember the week that happened, I should be very
much obliged.”</p>

<p>Susan Scott sat with a heavy frown on her rather pretty
features. Concentrated thought was evidently an unwonted
exercise. But at last her efforts bore fruit.</p>

<p>“I’ve got it now,” she said with something of triumph
in her tone. “It was the last week of November. I remember
it because my brother-in-law got his new job in
the first week of December, and that was the following
Monday. I heard that much about his job that I ought
to know.”</p>

<p>French had scarcely doubted that this would prove to
be the date, but it was most excellent to have it fixed in
so definite a manner. He felt that he was progressing in
his weaving of the net round the elusive Mrs. X.</p>

<p>“That’s very good,” he said approvingly. “Now will
you tell me about Mr. Vane?”</p>

<p>The girl sniffed.</p>

<p>“Him?” she said scornfully. “There ain’t much to tell
about him. He didn’t trouble us much with his company.”</p>

<p>“How was that? Did they not get on? Remember
we’re speaking in confidence.”</p>

<p>“Why, I never even saw him. He didn’t turn up all
the three months I was there. But I heard about him
from cook. He was away all the time or next thing to
it. When he did come, it was generally for two days.
He would come late in the evening, so cook said, and stay
for two days without ever going so much as outside the
door, and then go away again in the evening.”</p>

<p>“You mean that if he came, say, on a Monday night,
he would stay until the following Wednesday night?”</p>

<p>“Yes; or sometimes for three days, so cook said.”</p>

<p>“What time in the evening would he come and go?”</p>

<p>“About half-past ten he always came, and a little before
eight he left.”</p>

<p>“Do you mean that he arrived and left at the same time
on each visit?”</p>

<p>“Yes, always about the same time.”</p>

<p>“After dark?”</p>

<p>“No. Just at those times. It was the same summer
and winter. At least, that’s all what cook told me. We
talked about it many a time. She thought he was balmy.”</p>

<p>French was somewhat puzzled by this information.
The whole story had what he called with a fine disregard
for metaphorical purity, a “fishy ring.” At first it had
looked uncommonly like as if Mr. Vane were paying
clandestine visits to his own house, and, if so, he might
well be the man the old stage doorkeeper had spoken
of, and still have another establishment elsewhere. But
this last answer seemed to suggest some other explanation
of Vane’s mysterious movements. After a pause, French
went on:</p>

<p>“Did it ever strike you he was trying to keep his visits
secret?”</p>

<p>“I can’t say it did,” the girl answered with apparent
regret. “Cook never said that. But,” more hopefully,
“it might have been that, mightn’t it?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” French rejoined. “I’m asking you.”</p>

<p>Miss Scott didn’t know either, but in her opinion the
Inspector’s suggestion might well be the truth. French
noted the matter as one for future consideration as he
continued his interrogation.</p>

<p>“What was Mr. Vane like in appearance? Did cook
ever say?”</p>

<p>Cook, it appeared, had supplied information on this
point also. Even French, who knew the ways of servants,
was amazed at the detailed thoroughness with which
these two had evidently discussed their employers’ affairs.
Mr. Vane was tall, but stooped, with a sallow complexion,
a heavy dark moustache, and glasses.</p>

<p>As French listened to this description an almost incredible
idea flashed into his mind. He seemed to see a
vision of the Duke &amp; Peabody office in Amsterdam, and
to hear again the voice of the dapper agent, Schoofs,
saying: “A tall man, but stooped, with a sallow complexion,
a heavy dark moustache, and glasses.” Could
it be? Could this mysterious Mr. Vane be none other
than his old acquaintance, Vanderkemp?</p>

<p>For a time he sat motionless, lost in thought, as he
considered the possibility. It would certainly clear up a
good deal that was mysterious in the case. It would
account for Vanderkemp’s actions previous to the murder,
as well as his bolt to Switzerland; it would supply a cause
for Sylvia Duke’s perturbation and for the postponement
of the wedding; and it would explain how Mrs.
Vane received her warning, Mr. Duke having stated
he would, without delay, tell Vanderkemp of the discovery
of Cissie Winter. The choice of the name Vane
even tended in the same direction. There were advantages
in an alias beginning with the same letter as the real name,
lest an inadvertent initial on clothing or elsewhere should
give the secret away. Moreover, the theory involved
nothing inherently impossible. Vanderkemp was then,
and had been for some time, ostensibly on an extended
tour in the United States, so that, as far as he could see
at present an alibi was out of the question.</p>

<p>At first sight it seemed to French as if he had hit on
the solution of the mystery, but as he continued turning
it over in his mind he became less and less certain. Several
important points were not covered by the theory.
First of all, it did not, in his opinion, square with Vanderkemp’s
personality. The Inspector had a very exalted
opinion of his own powers as a reader of character—with
considerable justification, it must be admitted—and the
more he thought of Vanderkemp’s bearing during their
momentous interview at Barcelona, the more satisfied he
felt of the traveller’s innocence. He found it hard to
believe, further, that a man who had just benefited to
the extent of over £30,000 would be able to deny himself
at least a very slight betterment in his standard of living.
But the real difficulty was to connect Vanderkemp with
Miss Winter’s escapade with the sixteen diamonds. How
did she receive them? She was in the Savoy building all
the time between the theft at Hatton Garden and the
traveller’s departure from London, and it was therefore
impossible that they could have met. Nor did French
think it likely that so dangerous a package would have
been entrusted to other hands or to the post.</p>

<p>Here were undoubted objections to the theory, nevertheless
French felt a pleasurable glow of excitement as he
wondered if they could not be met and if he really had not
reached the last lap of his long investigation. He determined
that his first action on reaching the Yard would
be to put the matter to the test.</p>

<p>Having arrived at this decision, he turned again to Miss
Scott.</p>

<p>“I should like cook’s address, please.”</p>

<p>Miss Scott did not know cook’s address. She believed
the woman lived somewhere down near Reading, but more
than that she could not say, except that her name was
Jane Hudson, and that she was small and stout and lively.</p>

<p>French felt that if he wanted the woman he could find
her from this information. He scarcely hoped that she
would be able to tell him more than the parlourmaid, but
thought that it might be worth while to have her looked
up on chance, and he decided to give the necessary instructions,
to one of his men on his return to the Yard.</p>

<p>By this time it was evident that Miss Scott had exhausted
her stock of information, and he presently took
leave of her, having asked her to ring him up if she heard
or saw anything either of cook or of her former employers.</p>

<p>Returning to the Yard he rang up the Hatton Garden
office, and having obtained Vanderkemp’s last known
address, sent a cable to the United States police, asking
that inquiries should be made as to the man’s whereabouts.</p>

<p>His next business was to find the man who had driven
Mrs. Vane to Euston. A few minutes’ walk took him to
Gardiner Street, and he soon reached the cab rank. Five
vehicles were lined up, and he called the drivers together
and explained his business. He took a strong line, demanding
information as a right in his capacity of an
officer of the C.I.D. It had immediate effect.</p>

<p>One of the drivers said that he and the man next on
the rank were called to Crewe Lodge by a rather pretty
girl about 4.30 on the afternoon in question. It looked
as if the house was being closed. A lady, apparently
the mistress, got into his friend’s taxi and was driven
off, then the girl who had called him and a friend—he
took them to be servants—entered his car and followed.
He set the girl down at some street off Maida Vale—Thistle
Road or Mistletoe Road—he wasn’t just sure, and
took the other woman on to Paddington. The colleague
who had driven the lady was not then on the stand, but he
had been gone a considerable time and might turn up any
moment. Would the Inspector wait, or should the man
be sent on to the Yard on his return?</p>

<p>French decided to wait, and in less than half an hour
he was rewarded by the appearance of the car. Taximan
James Tucker remembered the evening in question. He
had followed his <span class="it">confrère</span> to Crewe Lodge, and a lady
whom he took to be the mistress of the house had entered
his vehicle. The girl who had called him from the stand
had told him to drive to Euston, and he had started off
through North Gate and along Albert Road. But when
he had nearly reached the station the lady had spoken to
him through the tube. She had said that she had changed
her mind, and would go on to St. Pancras. He had accordingly
driven to the latter station, where the lady had
paid him off.</p>

<p>“Had she any luggage?” French asked.</p>

<p>Yes, she had two or three—the man could not be quite
sure—but either two or three suitcases. No, there
wouldn’t be any note of them on his daily return as they
were carried inside the vehicle. The lady got a porter at
St. Pancras, he believed, but he could not identify the
man now. No, she had spoken to no one during the
journey, and he could not suggest any reason why she
should have changed her mind.</p>

<p>Inquiries at St. Pancras seemed to French to be the next
item on his programme, and entering Tucker’s vehicle, he
was driven to the old Midland terminus. Where, French
wondered, had his quarry been going? With Tucker’s
help he fixed a few minutes before 5.00 as the hour of
the lady’s arrival, and then, after paying the man off, he
went to the time-tables to find out what trains left about
that hour.</p>

<p>In the nature of the case—a woman making a hurried
flight from the attentions of the police—he thought it
more than likely that the journey would have been to
some distant place. While a very clever fugitive might
recognise that a change to another part of London was
perhaps his safest policy, the mentality of the average
criminal leaned towards putting as many miles as possible
between himself and the scene of his crime. It was by
no means a sound deduction, but in the absence of anything
better, he thought the main line trains should be
first considered.</p>

<p>He looked up the tables and was struck at once by the
fact that an important express left at 5.00 p.m. It called
at Nottingham, Chesterfield, Sheffield, and Leeds, and
there were connections to Harrogate, Bradford, Morecambe,
and Heysham for the Belfast boat. But any one
of these places might be the starting-point of some further
journey, and unless he got a lead of some kind it was
quite hopeless to try to follow the traveller. Besides,
she might not have gone by this train. There was a 5.5
stopping train to Northampton, a 5.35 to Nottingham,
stopping at a number of intermediate places, and a 6.15
express to the north, not to mention local trains. No,
he did not see that much was to be gained from the time-tables.</p>

<p>He made what inquiries he could at the station, exhibiting
the lady’s photograph to officials who were on
duty when the trains in question were starting. It was,
of course, a forlorn hope, and he was not greatly disappointed
when it led to nothing.</p>

<p>As another forlorn hope, he wired to the police at
Nottingham, Chesterfield, Sheffield, Leeds, Harrogate,
Bradford, Morecambe, Heysham, and Belfast, saying that
the woman referred to in page four of the previous week’s
<span class="it">Bulletin</span> was believed to have gone to their respective
towns, and urging that a vigilant lookout be kept for her.</p>

<p>French once more felt baffled. Again in this exasperating
case he was left at a loose end. The information he
gained always seemed to fail him at the critical moment.
In something very like desperation he sat down that
evening at his desk and spent a couple of hours going
through his notes of the case, wondering if by any chance
he could find some further clue which he had hitherto
overlooked. After careful thought, he decided that there
was still one line of research unexplored—an unpromising
line, doubtless, but still a line. That list of dealings on
the Stock Exchange: could anything be made of that?
Would, for example, the secretaries of the various firms
be able to tell him who had carried out the transactions in
question? If so, it should lead to Mrs. Vane or to some
one who knew her intimately. He was not hopeful of the
result, but he decided that if next day he had no other
news he would look into it.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</span><span epub:type="label">A DEAL IN STOCKS</span></h2>

<p>Full of his new idea, French on arrival at his office on
the following morning took from his archives the letter
addressed to Mrs. Vane which he had found in the box
on that lady’s hall door and spread it out before him on
his desk.</p>

<p>As he looked down the list of sales and purchases of
stock, he was struck once again not only by the surprising
number of the transactions, but also of the diversity of
the stocks dealt in. There were British War Loan,
Colonial Government and foreign railway stocks, as well
as those of banks, insurance companies, stores, and various
industrial concerns—some five-and-twenty altogether.
He wondered from which of them he would be most likely
to obtain the desired information.</p>

<p>Finally he selected James Barker and <span class="it">The Daily Looking
Glass</span>, and taking the latter first, he went to the
registered offices of the company and asked to see the
secretary. His question was a simple one. In his investigations
of the affairs of a suspect, he had come across
a memorandum of the sale of £895 19s. 8d. worth of
<span class="it">Daily Looking Glass</span> ordinary stock. Could the secretary
please inform him either of the parties to the transaction
or of the stockbroker through whom it was carried out?</p>

<p>The secretary was dubious. He asked French the date
of the sale, and when the latter replied that he did not
know, dilated on the complexity of the search. This ignorance
as to time, together with the constantly varying
value of the stock, made the sale very difficult to trace; in
fact he was not sure that the information could be obtained.
French in his turn dilated on the urgency and
importance of the matter, with the result that two clerks
were set to work and a report promised for the earliest
possible moment.</p>

<p>So far so good, but this was not enough. French went
on to James Barker’s, where he set similar inquiries on
foot. Then, anxious to leave no stone unturned, he asked
the same questions at the registered office of the Picardie
Hotel.</p>

<p>The latter was the first to reply. The secretary telephoned
to say that he had had a careful search made, and
that no transaction covering the exact amount in question
had taken place. Nothing within eight pounds of the
figure given by Inspector French had been dealt with.</p>

<p>He had scarcely finished the conversation when the
secretary of James Barker rang up. He, too, had made
a careful search for several years back, and he, too, had
found that stock of the amount mentioned by the Inspector
had not changed hands during the period. On the 2nd
March previously a sale had taken place of slightly over
a pound more than the Inspector’s figure, £1 2s. 1d. to be
exact, but with the exception of this there was nothing
very close to it. An hour later came a similar reply from
the Picardie Hotel. No transaction could be traced
within ten pounds of the amount mentioned by the
Inspector.</p>

<p>Could the discrepancies, French wondered, represent
broker’s commission, stamp duties or tax of some kind?
To make sure of this would, he thought, be a tedious
business, involving research through the books of a considerable
number of the companies concerned. He was
rather ignorant of the business of stockbroking, and he
had no idea of the scale of the brokers’ fees nor how these
were paid. He thought, however, that if in the case of,
say, six companies, a note were made of the names of
those concerned with all transactions of amounts approximating
to those mentioned in Mrs. Vane’s letter, and if
the same broker, seller, or purchaser occurred in the deals
of each company, he would be justified in assuming that
person had some connection with Mrs. Vane. It was
somewhat complicated as well as unpleasantly vague,
but it did at least represent a clue. French decided he
would get on with it, though exactly how he did not see.</p>

<p>After some thought he decided he would put his problem
before a stockbroker friend of his own. George
Hewett was junior partner of a small firm with offices in
Norfolk Street off the Strand, and French, having made
an appointment for fifteen minutes later, put the list in
his pocket and set off to walk along the Embankment.</p>

<p>His friend greeted him as a long-lost brother, and after
lighting up cigars, they discussed old times as well as
the testamentary affairs of one Bolsover, deceased, which
had involved a Chancery action in which Hewett had
given evidence. That subject exhausted, French turned
to his immediate business. He handed his list to the
other, and telling his story, ended up by asking for an
expert opinion on the whole affair.</p>

<p>The stockbroker took the paper and glanced rapidly
down it; then he began to reread it more slowly. French
sat watching him, puffing the while at his cigar. Finally
the other made his pronouncement.</p>

<p>“Hanged if I know, French. It is evidently a statement
of some one’s dealings in the money market, but
it’s not in the form a professional man would use. In
fact, I never saw anything quite like it before.”</p>

<p>“Yes?” French prompted. “In what way is it different
from what you’re accustomed to?”</p>

<p>Hewett shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p>“I suppose if I said in every way, I shouldn’t be far
wrong. First place, there are no dates for the transactions.
Of course if the statement was only intended to
show the net result of the deals the dates wouldn’t so
much matter, but a stockbroker would have put them in.
Then it’s impossible to get at any idea back of the sales.
You see here that 4% War Loan was sold and 5% War
Loan was bought; Great Westerns were sold and North-Easterns
bought, while Australian 6% was sold and
British East Africa 6% bought. These stocks are all
pretty much the same in value, and there was nothing to
be gained by selling one and buying another. Same way
no sensible man would sell Alliance Assurance and buy
Amalgamated Oils. You get what I mean?”</p>

<p>“Quite. But mightn’t the operator have been ignorant
or misled as to the values?”</p>

<p>“Of course he might, and no doubt was. But even
allowing for that, he’s had a rum notion of stock exchange
business. Then these small items are unusual. What
does ‘balances’ mean? And why are ‘telegrams’ shown
as a sale and not a purchase? I don’t mind admitting,
French, that the thing beats me. It’s the sort of business
you’d expect to be done on the stock exchange in Bedlam,
if there is one.”</p>

<p>“I tried to get at the operator through the secretaries
of some of those companies, but that was no good.”</p>

<p>“Which ones?”</p>

<p>“<span class="it">The Daily Looking Glass</span>, James Barker, and the
Picardie Hotel.”</p>

<p>“And they couldn’t help you?”</p>

<p>“They said no transactions of those exact figures had
been carried out. The nearest were within a few pounds
of what I wanted. I wondered would the amounts include
brokers’ fees or stamp duty or taxes of any kind
which would account for the difference?”</p>

<p>“I don’t think so.” Hewett pored in silence over the
paper for some seconds, then he turned and faced his
visitor. “Look here,” he went on deliberately, “do you
want to know what I think?”</p>

<p>“That’s what I came for,” French reminded him.</p>

<p>“Very well, I’ll tell you. I think the whole thing is just
a blooming fraud. And do you know what makes me sure
of it?”</p>

<p>French shook his head.</p>

<p>“Well, it’s a thing you might have found out for yourself.
It doesn’t add. Those figures at the bottom are
not the sum of the lines. The thing’s just a blooming
fraud.”</p>

<p>French cursed himself for his oversight, then suddenly
a startling idea flashed into his mind. Suppose this
list of sales and purchases had nothing whatever to do
with finance. Suppose it conveyed a hidden message by
means of some secret code or cipher. Was that a possibility?
His voice trembled slightly, as with a haste verging
on something very different from his usual Soapy Joe
politeness he took his leave.</p>

<p>He hurried back to the Yard, eagerly anxious to get to
work on his new inspiration, and reaching his office he
spread the list on his desk and sat down to study it. It
read:</p>

<p class="line0" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;font-size:.8em;font-variant:small-caps;">Stock and Share List</p>

<table id="tab3" summary="" class="center" style="font-size:.8em;">
<colgroup>
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 14em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
</colgroup>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5"></td><td class="tab3c3 tab3c3-col5 tdStyle6" colspan="3"><span class="it">Bought</span></td><td class="tab3c6 tab3c6-col8 tdStyle6" colspan="3"><span class="it">Sold</span></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5"></td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">£</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"><span class="it">s.</span></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"><span class="it">d.</span></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">£</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"><span class="it">s.</span></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"><span class="it">d.</span></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">1.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">War Loan 5%</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">328</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">4</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">2</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">2.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Australia 6%</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">568</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">5</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">0</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">3.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Great Western Ord.</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">1039</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">1</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">3</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">4.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Associated News Ord.</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">936</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">6</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">3</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">5.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Aerated Bread</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">713</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">9</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">2</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">6.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Barclay’s Bank</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">991</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">18</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">1</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">7.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Alliance Assurance</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">394</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">10</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">19</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">8.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Lyons</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">463</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">17</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">5</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">9.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Picardie Hotel</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">205</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">14</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">11</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">10.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Anglo-American Oil</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">748</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">3</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">9</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">11.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">War Loan 4%</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">403</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">18</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">10</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">12.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">British East Africa 6%</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">401</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">3</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">9</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">13.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">L. &amp; N. E.</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">292</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">1</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">1</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">14.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Brit. American Tobacco</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">898</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">5</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">7</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">15.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Army &amp; Navy Stores</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">1039</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">0</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">4</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">16.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Lloyd’s Bank</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">586</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">10</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">10</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">17.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Atlas Assurance</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">922</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">4</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">5</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">18.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Telegrams</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">16</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">7</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">19.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Maple</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">90</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">19</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">6</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">20.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Mappin &amp; Webb</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">463</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">4</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">5</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">21.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Amalgamated Oils</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">748</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">5</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">7</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">22.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">War Loan 4½%</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">568</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">2</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">3</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">23.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Canadian Govt. 3½%</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">958</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">5</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">6</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">24.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Balances</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">17</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">3</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">25.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">Metropolitan Railway</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">812</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">10</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">4</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4"></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">26.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5"><span class="it">Daily Looking Glass</span> Ord.</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">895</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">19</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">8</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4">27.</td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5">J. Barker</td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">371</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">18</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">11</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5"></td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">---</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">---</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">---</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">---</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">---</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">---</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5"></td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4">£6935</td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4">12</td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4">1</td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">£9127</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">18</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">2</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5"></td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">6935</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">12</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">1</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5"></td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">---</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">---</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">---</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab3c1 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c2 tdStyle5"></td><td class="tab3c3 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c4 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c5 tdStyle4"></td><td class="tab3c6 tdStyle4">£2192</td><td class="tab3c7 tdStyle4">6</td><td class="tab3c8 tdStyle4">1</td></tr>
</table>

<p>The first question which occurred to French was
whether, assuming the list did contain some secret
message, this was hidden in the names of the stocks or
in the money, or in both?</p>

<p>Taking the former idea first, he began trying to form
words out of certain letters of the names, selected on
various plans. The initials, W, A, G, A, A, . . . were
not promising, even when read bottom upwards, J, D,
M, B, C. . . . Nor were the final letters, downwards and
upwards, any better. Those next the initials and the
penultimates were equally hopeless, nor did diagonal arrangements
promise better.</p>

<p>French tried every plan he could think of, working
steadily and methodically through the various cases of
each, and not leaving it until he was satisfied that he was
on the wrong track. He came on no solution, but he
did make one discovery which seemed to indicate that
the message, if such existed, was contained in the money
columns rather than in the names. He noticed that in
the majority of cases the names of the various stocks
began with one of the earlier letters of the alphabet, and
where this did not obtain, the stock in question was one
of the first of that kind of stock to be quoted. He picked
up a <span class="it">Daily Mail</span> and looked at the financial page. The
stocks were divided under various headings, British
Stocks, Overseas Dominions, Home Railways, Canadian
and Foreign Railways, and such like. The first division
was British Stocks, and the first item in it was War
Loan 5%. But the first item on Mrs. Vane’s list was
War Loan 5%.</p>

<p>The second item on the list was Australia 6%, and
referring to the <span class="it">Daily Mail</span> once more, French saw that
Australia 6% was the first item on the second division.
This was sufficiently interesting, but when he found that
the next five items, Great Western, Associated News,
Aerated Bread, Barclay’s Bank, and Alliance Assurance
were each the first of their respective divisions, he
felt he had stumbled upon something more than a
coincidence.</p>

<p>He re-examined the list on this new basis, only to find
his conclusions verified. Apparently the person writing
it had simply copied down the stocks given in some
paper—probably the <span class="it">Daily Mail</span>. In order to obtain
variety and to make an unsuspicious-looking list, he had
not simply copied them consecutively; he had taken the
first out of each division. Then he had gone over the
divisions again, using the second name in each case, and
so on until he had obtained the whole twenty-five names
that he had required. It had not been done with absolute
accuracy, but there was no doubt of the general
method. From this it followed that any message which
the list might convey was contained in the money columns,
and French accordingly transferred his attention to the
latter.</p>

<p>The amounts extended from 16s. 7d. up to £1039, and
varied surprisingly between these extremes. There were
none in the £100’s or the £600’s, but all the other hundreds
were represented. Speaking broadly, there were
more of the £800’s and £900’s than of the lower numbers.
But he could not see where any of these facts tended.</p>

<p>There being no obvious line of research, he began a
laborious and detailed investigation into the possibilities
of substitution, that is, one of those ciphers in which a
number or other sign is used to denote a letter. It was
clear that single numbers were insufficient for this purpose,
as in that case only ten letters of the alphabet could
be used. Some combination was therefore involved, and
French tried various schemes of addition to meet the case.
But though he got three men to assist him in the details
of his various tests, he could not find anything which gave
the least suggestion of an intelligible combination.</p>

<p>While engaged in this manner, he noticed that so far
as the pounds were concerned there were no less than
three similar pairs, numbers 2 and 22, 3 and 15, and 10
and 21. He examined these pairs for some time, and then
he suddenly made a discovery which seemed to show
that at last he was on the right track. He had put the
figures down beside each other, so:</p>

<table id="tab4" summary="" class="center">
<colgroup>
<col span="1" style="width: 12.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
</colgroup>
<tr><td class="tab4c1 tdStyle0"></td><td class="tab4c2 tdStyle1">£</td><td class="tab4c3 tdStyle1"><span class="it">s.</span></td><td class="tab4c4 tdStyle1"><span class="it">d.</span></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab4c1 tdStyle0">No. 2</td><td class="tab4c2 tdStyle1">568</td><td class="tab4c3 tdStyle1">5</td><td class="tab4c4 tdStyle1">0</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab4c1 tdStyle0">No. 22</td><td class="tab4c2 tdStyle1">568</td><td class="tab4c3 tdStyle1">2</td><td class="tab4c4 tdStyle1">3</td></tr>
</table>

<p>when suddenly he noticed that if the shilling and pence
of each item were added the result would be the same:
5+0=5; 2+3=5. Eagerly he turned to the other pairs
and wrote them out similarly,</p>

<table id="tab5" summary="" class="center">
<colgroup>
<col span="1" style="width: 12.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
</colgroup>
<tr><td class="tab5c1 tdStyle0"></td><td class="tab5c2 tdStyle1">£</td><td class="tab5c3 tdStyle1"><span class="it">s.</span></td><td class="tab5c4 tdStyle1"><span class="it">d.</span></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab5c1 tdStyle0">No. 3</td><td class="tab5c2 tdStyle1">1039</td><td class="tab5c3 tdStyle1">1</td><td class="tab5c4 tdStyle1">3</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab5c1 tdStyle0">No. 15</td><td class="tab5c2 tdStyle1">1039</td><td class="tab5c3 tdStyle1">0</td><td class="tab5c4 tdStyle1">4</td></tr>
</table>

<p>and,</p>

<table id="tab6" summary="" class="center">
<colgroup>
<col span="1" style="width: 12.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
<col span="1" style="width: 2.5em;" />
</colgroup>
<tr><td class="tab6c1 tdStyle0"></td><td class="tab6c2 tdStyle1">£</td><td class="tab6c3 tdStyle1"><span class="it">s.</span></td><td class="tab6c4 tdStyle1"><span class="it">d.</span></td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab6c1 tdStyle0">No. 10</td><td class="tab6c2 tdStyle1">748</td><td class="tab6c3 tdStyle1">3</td><td class="tab6c4 tdStyle1">9</td></tr>
<tr><td class="tab6c1 tdStyle0">No. 21</td><td class="tab6c2 tdStyle1">748</td><td class="tab6c3 tdStyle1">5</td><td class="tab6c4 tdStyle1">7</td></tr>
</table>

<p>Here he saw at a glance that the same thing obtained,
the pounds alone, and the pence and shillings added together,
making two similar pairs, and therefore presumably
standing for the same word.</p>

<p>This discovery restored all his eager interest. It seemed
definitely to prove three things, each several one of which
afforded him the liveliest satisfaction. First, these combinations
of figures proved that there really was some
underlying scheme, and that in its turn involved the hidden
message; secondly, they showed that he, French, was
on the direct road towards a solution; and thirdly, they
indicated a code or cipher built up of pairs of numbers,
a frequent combination, embracing many well-known
varieties of cryptogram.</p>

<p>His next step was, therefore, to rewrite the list in dual
column, the pounds in front, the pence and shillings added
together behind. This gave him a new jumping-off place
in the following:</p>

<div class="literal-container" style=""><div class="literal"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line0"> 328—6</p>
<p class="line0"> 568—5</p>
<p class="line0">1039—4</p>
<p class="line0"> 936—9</p>
<p class="line0"> 713—11, and so on.</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>On this he started his three men, making them try to
work out keys on squares and parallelograms, as well as
in other well-established ways. Then the pounds figure
proving too large for this, he tried adding the various
digits of these figures together. In this way, 328 became
3+2+8 or 13, and so he compiled a second list beginning:</p>

<div class="literal-container" style=""><div class="literal"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line0">13—6</p>
<p class="line0">19—5</p>
<p class="line0">13—4</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>But in spite of all his own and his men’s efforts he was
unable to find any clue to the key. They worked until
long after the usual quitting time, and at length he had
to agree to an adjournment for the night.</p>

<p>Next day he again attacked the problem, but it was not
until well on in the afternoon that he made an advance.
Tired and dispirited, he had sent for a cup of coffee to
clear his brain, and after it he had, contrary to his custom,
lighted his pipe, while he leaned comfortably back
in his chair still turning the matter over in his mind. He
was beginning to think the puzzle insoluble, when suddenly
an idea flashed into his mind, and he sat up sharply,
wondering if he had hit on the solution.</p>

<p>He had been considering numerical ciphers of which
the key is some book. These consist usually of sets of
three numbers, the first representing the page, the second
the line on that page, and the third the word on that line.
But he recognised that one of these latter numbers might
be a constant, that is, that the word should always be
on, say, the fifth line of the page, or that it should be
the first or second of the line. In this way the cipher
could be worked with pairs of numbers. The difficulty in
these cases was of course to find the book which each of
the communicating parties used.</p>

<p>So far had he progressed when he got his great idea.
Where had he seen a book which seemed strangely out
of keeping with its fellows? Of course! That was it at
last! The <span class="it">Concise Oxford Dictionary</span> in Mrs. Vane’s
sitting-room!</p>

<p>As he thought over this he felt more and more certain
that he had reached the explanation. Not only was there
the fact of the book being there, but a dictionary was
obviously not only the kind of book best suited for the
purpose, but also that best suited for a dual number system.
The first number would represent the page and the
second the word on that page. The idea, further, was
confirmed by the fact that while the figure for the
pounds—or pages—ran 1 to about 1000, that for
the shillings and pence—or words on the page—never
rose above 30. There was no doubt, French thought,
that he had got it at last.</p>

<p>At Scotland Yard all things are procurable at short
notice. He rang up a subordinate and gave urgent instructions
that a <span class="it">Concise Oxford Dictionary</span> was to be
obtained immediately and sent up to him.</p>

<p>Five minutes later he was eagerly turning over the
leaves. It took but a second or two to find page 328,
and another second to count down to the sixth word. It
was “French.”</p>

<p>Without waiting to consider whether this might refer
to himself, in which case he had found the solution, or
merely be a coincidence, in which case he hadn’t, he
hastily went on to the next number. Page 568, word 5,
was “On.”</p>

<p>“French on.” Still it might make sense or it might not.
He looked up No. 3.</p>

<p>The fourth word on the 1039th page was “Your.”
“French on your” was going all right, but when he turned
up No. 4 and found that the ninth word on page 936 was
“Track,” all doubt was at an end. “French on your
track.” He had got it with a vengeance!</p>

<p>The remaining words came easily until he came to
number 17, Atlas Assurance £922 4s. 5d. The ninth
word on page 922 did not make sense. But he had gone
so far that this further problem could not long hold him
up. After a very few seconds he saw that if he added
the shillings and pence of the following line—which
showed no figure in the pounds column—to those of the
£922, he found the word he wanted. It simply meant that
there were more than thirty words preceding that in question
on that page of the dictionary. 19 and 11, or 30, was
the largest number one line of shillings and pence would
show, therefore a larger number than 30 required two
lines of shillings and pence to one of pounds. The
word “telegrams” had evidently been written as a blind,
and he soon saw that the item “balance” was wanted for
a similar purpose. After this a few minutes sufficed to
turn up all the words, and presently he sat back and
looked at the completed result of his work.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“French on your track rendezvous victory hotel
lee d s if i fail take your own ticket boat leave s on
twenty six t h.”</p>

</div>

<p>This as it stood was clear, but he rewrote it, putting
in stops and capitals, and joining the broken words.</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“French on your track. Rendezvous Victory Hotel,
Leeds. If I fail take your own ticket. Boat leaves on
twenty-sixth.”</p>

</div>

<p>So they were trying to escape by sea, Mrs. Vane and
the person who had sent her the warning! Who that
person was, French had but little doubt. Almost certainly
it was Mr. Vane, and if so, it seemed to him also beyond
reasonable doubt that Mr. Vane was the murderer. At
all events, whether or not, the person who had sent cipher
directions to Mrs. Vane regarding their joint flight was
the person he wanted. He chuckled to himself as he
thought that he would soon know all about it now. He
would soon find the boat they were sailing in, and then
he would have them in the hollow of his hand.</p>

<p>But would he? As his eye fell on the almanac hanging
above the chimneypiece he swore. Inexorably it reminded
him that this was the twenty-sixth. The steamer
had left on that very day!</p>

<p>But be that as it might, his procedure was clear. He
must find the boat. For a moment he sat considering
ways and means, and then his attention was attracted
to the wording of the last phrase of the message: “Boat
leaves on twenty-sixth.” This surely suggested a clue—that
the service was other than daily. Had the latter obtained,
the phrase would have been, “Take next Thursday’s
boat,” or words to that effect. If his deduction
was correct, it meant that the steamer was a sea-going
ship, not merely a cross-Channel packet. This view,
moreover, was to some extent supported by the probability
that the fugitives would almost certainly make for
a distant rather than an adjacent country.</p>

<p>From where, then, in the neighbourhood of Leeds, did
steamers start to distant lands? Liverpool was, of course,
the obvious answer, but it need not necessarily be Liverpool.
From Hull and Grimsby, or even Manchester and
Goole, ships left for foreign ports. It would be necessary
to make a list of all the ocean-going steamers which left
all the ports near Leeds on the current date.</p>

<p>Late though it was, French stuck to his task. A study
of the shipping news revealed the fact that seven steamers
were booked to leave Liverpool and Hull and the ports
adjoining. From Liverpool there was a White Star liner
to Boston and Philadelphia, a Lamport &amp; Holt boat to
Buenos Aires and Rosario, a Booth liner to Para and
Manáos, and a Bibby liner to Egypt, Colombo and Rangoon.
From Hull, a Finland liner sailed to Helsingfors
and a Wilson boat to Copenhagen, while another Wilson
liner left Grimsby for Christiansand. Besides these, there
were doubtless numbers of cargo boats, some of which
might take passengers, but these were the only regular
liners, and French determined to try them first.</p>

<p>He called up the head office of each of the lines in
question and asked had any persons named Vane booked
passages on their ships leaving on that day, and if not,
could they tell him if a couple answering the description
which he gave had done so. There was a considerable
delay in getting replies, but when he received that
from the Booth Line he did not grudge the loss of time.
It stated that a Mr. and Mrs. Vane, of Crewe Lodge, St.
John’s Wood Road, had booked passages to Manáos by
the <span class="it">Enoch</span>, which left Liverpool at 3.00 p.m. that afternoon;
further, these persons had gone on board at
Liverpool, and as far as the head office knew, had actually
sailed.</p>

<p>French was a trifle hazy about the Booth Line. He
knew that Manáos was in South America—Brazil, he
imagined, but whether the steamer sailed there direct or
made intermediate calls at which it might be overtaken
and at which an arrest might be made, he did not know.</p>

<p>He telephoned to have the information sent up to him.
“The last lap!” he thought contentedly, as he pictured
the arrival of the steamer at Manáos and the descent of
the fugitives on to the wharf into the clutches of the waiting
police. And for him it would mean not only the completion
of a peculiarly worrying and difficult case, but
undoubted kudos, if not actual promotion.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</span><span epub:type="label">THE S. S. “ENOCH”</span></h2>

<p>In the vast organisation of Scotland Yard the indexing
of information on every available subject has been brought
to something more than a fine art. If French had wished
to know the number of inhabitants of Prague, the
favourite recreations of the Elder Brethren of Trinity
House, or the width of the Ganges at Allahabad, some
notes or books of reference would immediately have been
forthcoming which would have fully supplied the desired
information. How much more when the question was
merely one of trains and steamers. He had not long
to wait for an answer to his telephone, and this revealed
the fact that the Booth liner <span class="it">Enoch</span>, which had left
Liverpool on the previous afternoon, called at Havre,
Oporto, Lisbon, Madeira, and Para, before completing
her voyage to Manáos by a sail of a thousand miles up
the Amazon. Moreover, she awaited at Havre the arrival
of the Southhampton boat, the connection of which left
Waterloo at 9.30 on the night of the 27th.</p>

<p>“To-night!” French thought as he hastily glanced at
his watch. It was just 8.42. <span class="it">What</span> a stroke of luck!
He would travel by it, and with any reasonable good
fortune he would have these Vanes safe in his clutches
before another dozen hours had passed.</p>

<p>As a man of action French was unsurpassed. Within
five minutes he had called an assistant, a keen, efficient
young sergeant named Carter, and instructed him to join
him that night on the 9.30 Continental train from Waterloo,
had sent another keen, efficient helper post-haste to
have extradition warrants and other necessaries sent to
the same train, and had rung up for a taxi to take him
home to tell his wife of his change of plan and to put two
or three things together for the journey. In short, thanks
to his energy, the hands of the Waterloo station clock
had scarcely reached 9.25 when he and Sergeant Carter
reached the platform from which the boat train was about
to start. Awaiting them was Manning, the other keen and
efficient assistant, who handed over warrants for the
arrest and extradition of Mr. and Mrs. Vane, passports,
English and French money, as well as an introduction to
the French police at Havre.</p>

<p>“Good, Manning! That’s all right,” French approved
as he took over the munitions of war. In another couple
of minutes the train drew slowly out of the station, and
increasing its speed as it passed the myriad lights of South
London, was soon roaring through the darkness of the
open country beyond.</p>

<p>Fortunately, the night was calm and the boat was not
crowded, so that the detectives were able to get berths
and a sleep to prepare them for their toils on the following
day. They reached Havre on time, and jumping into a
taxi were driven to the berth of the <span class="it">Enoch</span>, which was
some distance down the docks. French hurried on board
and asked to see the Captain, while Carter remained at
the gangway lest the quarry, seeing French and knowing
his appearance, might take fright and attempt to slip
ashore.</p>

<p>Captain Davis saw French immediately.</p>

<p>“Sit down, Mr. French,” he said pleasantly when he had
examined the other’s credentials, “and let me know what
I can do for you.”</p>

<p>French took the proffered seat as he drew from his
pocket Mrs. Vane’s photograph as well as her description
and that of her husband.</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you, Captain,” he answered. “I’m after a
man and woman who are wanted for murder and robbery.
They call themselves Mr. and Mrs. Vane, though I don’t
know if this is their real name or even if they are married.
I have learned that they booked with you from Liverpool
to Manáos, but I only found that out last night, so I came
over by Southampton in the hope of making an arrest.
There,” he passed over his photograph and papers, “are
the descriptions.”</p>

<p>The Captain glanced at him as he took the papers.
He did not speak until he had looked through the latter,
then he said gravely:</p>

<p>“I’m afraid, Mr. French, they’ve been one too many
for you this time. A Mr. and Mrs. Vane did book
passages and even came on board at Liverpool, but they
left the ship almost immediately and didn’t turn up again.
I assumed that some accident had prevented their return,
and that they would follow by Southampton as you did,
but from what you tell me it looks as if they had learned
you were on their track and made a bolt for it. But
we had better see the purser. He will tell us details.”</p>

<p>French was aghast. Once again had happened to him
what he had so often previously experienced. When he
was most sure of himself and most confident of success,
that was the time of failure! How often had he taken
a sporting chance, doubtful of himself and his ability to
meet a situation, and the occasion had resulted in a
brilliant coup. And how often, alas, had his certainty
of success ended in disaster!</p>

<p>By the time the purser arrived, he had to some extent
recovered his equanimity. “Mr. Jennings—Inspector
French of the C.I.D.,” the Captain introduced them.
“Sit down, Jennings, and hear what the Inspector wants.
It’s about that Mr. and Mrs. Vane that came aboard at
Liverpool and left again before we sailed. Ask him what
you want to know, Mr. French.”</p>

<p>Mr. Jennings was a shrewd, efficient-looking man of
about forty, and as French began to speak he felt a
comfortable assurance that at least he would receive in
answer to his questions concisely-worded statements of
accurately observed facts.</p>

<p>“It’s this way, Mr. Jennings,” he explained. “These
Vanes are wanted for murder and robbery. I traced
them to your ship, and crossed last night from London,
hoping to arrest them here. But the Captain tells me
I have missed them. Perhaps you’ll give me any information
you can about them.”</p>

<p>“There’s not much to tell,” the purser answered.
“They came aboard about noon on Thursday, and Mr.
Vane showed me their tickets and asked for their stateroom.
The tickets were singles from Liverpool to
Manáos, all O. K. An upper deck stateroom, No. 12, had
been reserved at the London office, and I gave the number
to their cabin steward and saw him leading the way there
with the luggage. About half an hour later they came
back to my office and asked what time the ship sailed. I
told them three o’clock. Mr. Vane said they had to go
ashore to complete some business, but would be back
in good time. They then left in the direction of the
gangway.”</p>

<p>“Did you actually see them go ashore?”</p>

<p>“No, you can’t see out on deck from the office.”</p>

<p>“Yes? And then?”</p>

<p>“After dinner their cabin steward asked me if I knew
anything about them. He said they hadn’t been down
for dinner, and he couldn’t find them anywhere about the
ship. We had a look round, and then I spoke to Captain
Davis, and he had a thorough search made. They have
never been seen since, and they’re certainly not on board
now.”</p>

<p>“They couldn’t have hidden somewhere and slipped
ashore here in Havre?”</p>

<p>“Quite impossible. There’s not the slightest doubt they
missed the boat at Liverpool.”</p>

<p>“Intentionally or unintentionally?” the Captain interjected.</p>

<p>“I don’t know anything about that,” Mr. Jennings
replied, “but they certainly did not sail with us. Perhaps,
Inspector, they learned when they went on shore that
you were after them?”</p>

<p>“Impossible,” French declared. “I did not myself
know where they had gone until last night.”</p>

<p>He felt ruefully sure that the whole thing was part of
the elaborate laying of a false trail, but he did not see
that anything was to be gained by discussing this with the
ship’s officers. He pushed his papers towards the purser.</p>

<p>“Can you recognise the parties from those, Mr. Jennings?”</p>

<p>A glance at the photograph sufficed. The original was
undoubtedly that Mrs. Vane who had for a brief half-hour
boarded the <span class="it">Enoch</span>. And the description was that of
Mr. Vane also. French was forced to the conclusion that
his quarry had indeed, in the Captain’s words, been too
many for him. He swore bitterly beneath his breath.</p>

<p>“You say they left some luggage in their stateroom,”
he went on. “Could I have a look at it?”</p>

<p>“Of course. But, you know, they may still be here.
On several occasions I have known passengers to miss
the ship at Liverpool and follow on here. They may
turn up at any minute.”</p>

<p>“If they do, so much the better,” French answered.
“But I won’t bank on it. If you don’t mind, I’ll have a
look at the luggage now. What time do you sail?”</p>

<p>“In about half an hour.”</p>

<p>“That will just give me time. Meantime I have a man
at the gangway, and he’ll spot them if they come along.”</p>

<p>There were four large suitcases in the roomy and comfortable
stateroom set apart for the Vanes, as well as
a number of articles of toilet and apparel which might
well represent the first hurried attempt at unpacking.
The suitcases were locked, but French soon opened them
with his bunch of skeleton keys. And here he got confirmation
of his theory that all this journey to Manáos
was merely a carefully thought out plan. The cases
were empty. Dummy luggage, brought in to bolster up
the trick. But there was nothing in the cabin to give
any hint of where the fugitives had really gone.</p>

<p>“I needn’t wait for them to turn up,” French said
grimly. “Those empty suitcases give the show away.”</p>

<p>“I’m afraid it looks like it,” the purser admitted.
“Sorry we didn’t know about it sooner.”</p>

<p>“Can’t be helped. That’s what we Scotland Yard
men are up against all the time.” He bid the friendly
purser good-day and slowly left the ship.</p>

<p>But he did not leave the wharf. Though he thought
it unlikely, there was still just a chance that the quarry
had missed the ship and were following on. He would
make sure.</p>

<p>But though he waited until the <span class="it">Enoch</span> cast off and
swung her bows round towards the open sea, there was no
sign of any late arrivals, and when he had once seen the
liner under way he turned disconsolately to his satellite.</p>

<p>“It’s all U P, Carter, as far as this trip is concerned.
They’ve given us the slip about proper. Goodness only
knows where they are by this time; perhaps half-way to
the States. Let’s find a telegraph office and report to
Headquarters.”</p>

<p>A few minutes later French had sent a long wire to
his chief at the Yard. Then at a loose end, he turned to
Sergeant Carter.</p>

<p>“Well, Carter, what shall we do with ourselves now?
Here’s ten o’clock and we can’t get back until the evening.
We have the whole day to play round in.”</p>

<p>Except that he believed he could do with a bit more
breakfast, the Sergeant’s ideas were nebulous. French
laughed at him.</p>

<p>“It’s what I was thinking myself,” he admitted, “but
it’s a bad time. These folk over here have no notion of
what a good breakfast means, and it’s a bit early for
their lunch. However, we’ll see what we can do.”</p>

<p>They went into a small restaurant and asked for coffee
and ham and eggs. This proving too much for the waiter,
the proprietor was summoned. He had a little English
and at last understood.</p>

<p>“But yes, messieurs,” he cried, waving his hands. “The
ham, the eggs, the omelette; is it not so?” He bowed low.
“Immediately, messieurs. Will messieurs be pleased to
be seated.”</p>

<p>Messieurs were pleased to be seated, and in an incredibly
short space of time a smoking omelette arrived,
garnished with chip potatoes and onions, together with
coffee and delicious rolls and butter. To this the hungry
men did full justice, and Carter’s estimate of the French,
which had been low, went up several points. They took
their time over the meal, but eventually it was finished,
and the problem of how to fill in their time once more
became insistent.</p>

<p>“We might go round and see some of these coast
places,” French suggested. “St. Malo or some of those.
Or I dare say we could work across somehow to Dieppe
and catch the afternoon boat to Newhaven. What do
you say?”</p>

<p>Carter voted for going to the station and looking into
the possibilities, and they walked slowly up the town,
fascinated by the foreign life of the busy port. Havre
is a fine city with good streets, shops, and public buildings,
but it is not an interesting town, and by the time
they reached the station, a mile and a half away, they felt
they had seen enough of it.</p>

<p>An examination of the time-tables showed that they
were too late for Dieppe—the English boat would have
left before they could possibly get there—and St. Malo,
they discovered, was not in that part of the country at
all, but miles away to the south-west. Trouville was only
eight or ten miles away across the bay, but Trouville in
winter did not seem an attractive prospect.</p>

<p>“Tell you what,” French said at last. “We’ve got an
introduction to these French johnnies. We’ll go and look
’em up, and perhaps see something of their police station.”</p>

<p>Sergeant Carter, delighted with his superior’s condescension,
hurriedly agreed, and a few minutes later the
two men found themselves ascending the steps of a
large building which bore over the door the legend
“Gendarmerie.” Here French tendered his introduction,
with the result that he was shown into the presence of
and politely welcomed by the officer in charge.</p>

<p>“I regret the Chief is out of town at present,” the latter
said in excellent English. “He will be sorry not to have
seen you. I hope that presently you will give me the
pleasure of your company at lunch, and in the meantime
let me know if there is anything I can do for you.”</p>

<p>French explained the circumstances. He would not
stay for lunch, as he had but a short time since finished an
excellent breakfast, but he would be most grateful if the
other would tell him how best he could spend the time
until his return boat to Southampton.</p>

<p>“That’s not until midnight,” answered the Frenchman.
“You don’t know this country?”</p>

<p>“Not at all. It was just that if there was anything
to see within reach, we might as well see it.”</p>

<p>“Of course, naturally. Well, monsieur, were I in your
place I should certainly go to Caen. It is an interesting
old town, well worth a visit. There is a steamer all the
way, but you would scarcely have time for that; it is
rather slow. I should recommend you to go to Trouville
by steamer—it’s just across the bay—and then go
on from there to Caen by rail. In the time at your disposal
I really do not think you could do anything better.”</p>

<p>French thanked him, and the other continued, “The
steamer sails according to the tide. To-day,” he glanced
at an almanac, “it leaves at midday. You should get to
Caen about two, and you could dine there and come back
in the evening in time for your boat.”</p>

<p>At ten minutes to twelve French and his satellite
reached the wharf, having delayed on their walk down
town to consume bocks in one of the many attractive
cafés in the main streets. They took tickets and went
on board the little steamer. The day was cold though
fine, and there were but few travellers. They strolled
about, interested in the novel scene, and at last finding
two seats in the lee of the funnel, sat down to await the
start.</p>

<p>Midday came, and with leisurely movements the horn
was blown, the gangway run ashore, and the ropes slacked.
The Captain put his lips to the engine-room speaking
tube, but before he could give his order an interruption
came from the shore. Shouts arose and a man in the
blue uniform of a gendarme appeared running towards
the boat and gesticulating wildly. The Captain paused,
the slackened ropes were pulled tight, and all concerned
stood expectant.</p>

<p>The gendarme jumped on board and ran up the steps
to the bridge, eagerly watched by the entire ship’s company.
He spoke rapidly to the Captain, and then the
latter turned to the staring passengers below.</p>

<p>“Monsieur Fr-r-onsh?” he called in stentorian tones,
looking inquiringly round the upturned faces. “Monsieur
Fr-r-onsh de Londres?”</p>

<p>“It’s you, sir,” cried Carter. “There’s something up.”</p>

<p>French hastened to the bridge and the gendarme handed
him a blue envelope. “De monsieur le chef,” he explained
with a rapid salute, as he hastened ashore.</p>

<p>It was a telegram, and it contained news which, as it
were, brought the Inspector up all standing. It was
from the Yard and read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p>“Liverpool police wire Vanes went aboard <span class="it">Enoch</span>
and did not go ashore again. Mackay was watching
ship for Henson and saw them. They must still be
on board. Follow ship to Oporto or Lisbon.”</p>

</div>

<p>“Come ashore, Carter,” French cried rapidly, rushing
to the side. The boat was actually moving, but the two
men, jumping, reached the wharf amid the execrations of
the Captain and staff.</p>

<p>“Here, officer,” he called, beckoning to the gendarme,
who had watched the proceedings with a horrified interest,
“how do you get quickly to Headquarters?”</p>

<p>The man bowed, shrugged his shoulders, and indicated
in dumb show that he did not understand. French hailed
a passing taxi and pushed his companions in.</p>

<p>“Monsieur le chef!” he cried to the bewildered
gendarme, producing and tapping the telegram. “Monsieur
le chef?”</p>

<p>The man understood. A smile dawned on his perturbed
countenance, and with a rapid flow of French he gave the
required address. In ten minutes they were once more
at the gendarmerie, French still clamouring for “Monsieur
le chef.”</p>

<p>He was shown into the room of the same polite officer
whom he had previously met.</p>

<p>“Ah,” the latter said, “so my man was in time. You
got your telegram?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir, I did, and greatly obliged to you I am for
your trouble. But I can’t make head or tail of the
thing. Those ship’s officers this morning were absolutely
positive the wanted couple had not sailed.”</p>

<p>The officer shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p>“Doubtless,” he said smoothly. “All the same I
thought you should have the message, lest you should
wish to follow up the steamer as suggested.”</p>

<p>“I have no choice,” French returned. “It is an order
from Headquarters. Perhaps, sir, you would add to your
already great kindness by telling me my route. With
this confounded difference of language I feel myself all
at sea.”</p>

<p>The officer, who had seemed bored as to the movements
of the Vanes, became once more the efficient, interested
consultant. The obvious route, he said, was via Paris.
It was true that you could get across country to pick up
the international express at Bordeaux, but Paris was
quicker and more comfortable. Fortunately, French had
returned in time to catch the midday train to the capital.
It left at 12.40, and he could easily reach the station
and book in the twenty minutes which remained before
that hour.</p>

<p>His time from the receipt of the wire until the Paris
express pulled out of Havre station had been so fully
occupied that French had not been able seriously to consider
the message sent. Now, seated in the corner of a
second-class compartment with Carter opposite, he drew
the flimsy sheet from his pocket and reread it carefully.
He understood the reference to Mackay and Henson.
Detective-Sergeant Mackay was one of the best men of
the Liverpool detective staff, and he was on a very similar
job to French’s own. He was watching the outgoing
steamers in the hope of capturing one Charles Henson,
who with a couple of others had made a sensational raid
on a country bank, and after murdering the manager, had
got away with a large haul from the safe. French knew
Mackay personally, and he was satisfied that if he had said
the Vanes had gone on board and remained there, they
had done so.</p>

<p>He wondered how it came that Mackay had not at the
time recognised the Vanes as a wanted couple. Probably,
he thought, the man had been so much occupied with
his own case that he had not read up the particulars in
the <span class="it">Bulletin</span>, which, after all, was a magazine intended
more for the rank and file than for men on specialised
duties. However, the fact remained that Mackay had
missed his chance, though his habit of detailed observation
had enabled him to some extent to redeem his error.</p>

<p>But if it was true that the Vanes had not left the ship
at Liverpool, what became of the statements of the Captain
and Purser? It was not likely that these men could
be hoodwinked over such a matter. They were experts;
moreover, they were dealing with a ship with whose every
part they were familiar. To the Vanes, on the other
hand, the ship would be strange, and they would be
ignorant of its routine. Under these circumstances it was
absolutely out of the question that the pair could have
hidden themselves on board. No, if they were there,
the Captain would have known of it. French could not
devise any explanation of the matter. The whole thing
seemed a contradiction.</p>

<p>He had, however, to settle his own plans. The kindly
French police officer had helped him by ’phoning the local
office of the Booth Line and finding out the itinerary of
the <span class="it">Enoch</span>. This was Saturday, and on the afternoon of the
following day, Sunday, the steamer was expected to reach
Leixoes, the port of Oporto. She would remain there that
night and the next day, leaving Leixoes about 8 o’clock on
the Monday evening. Next day about noon she was due
in Lisbon, where she would remain for two days. After
that her first call was Madeira.</p>

<p>French had intended to meet her in Lisbon, but it now
occurred to him that he might be able to make Oporto in
time to join her there. He had bought a railway guide
in Havre, and he now proceeded to look up the trains.
The route, he saw, was to Bordeaux by the Paris-Orleans
line, then on by the Midi to the Spanish frontier at Irun,
and so by Medina and Salamanca to Oporto. The first
through train from Paris after their arrival at 4.35 p.m.
was the 10.22 p.m. from the Gare Quai d’Orsay, and this
reached Oporto at shortly after midday on the next day
but one, Monday. Oporto to Leixoes was only half an
hour’s run, so he had six or seven hours’ margin. Oporto,
he decided, was his goal.</p>

<p>They were fortunate in securing sleeping berths between
Paris and Bordeaux, and there was a restaurant
car on the train to Irun. They waited an hour at the
frontier station, and French blessed the intelligence of
Manning, who had had their identification papers made
available for Spain and Portugal as well as France.</p>

<p>French on his trip from Chamonix to Barcelona had
been amazed by the illimitable extent of the earth, but
his feelings of wonder on that occasion were as nothing
compared to those he now experienced. The journey
from Irun to Oporto was absolutely <span class="it">endless</span>; at least he
thought so as interminable mile succeeded interminable
mile, while day turned into night and night more slowly
turned back into day. It was cold, too, through the high
tableland of Spain—bitterly cold, and the two men could
not get the kind of meals they liked, nor could they
sleep well in the somewhat jolting coaches. But all things
come to an end, and at half-past one on the Monday,
about an hour late, the train came finally to a stand in the
Estacao Central of Oporto. There was plenty of time,
and the travellers went straight to the Porto Hotel for a
short rest before setting out to find the tramway to
Leixoes.</p>

<p>French was immensely struck with the picturesque,
old world city, nestling on the steep, hilly banks of the
Douro, and he marvelled to feel quiver at every horse-hoof
the great high level Dom Luez bridge, which throws
its spidery steel arch in a single span of nearly 600 feet
across the placid river flowing far beneath. Then after
passing down the steeply-inclined streets to near the
water’s edge, he and Carter boarded the tram and set off
seawards along a road skirting the right bank of the
stream.</p>

<p>In spite of the business which had brought them so
far, both men gazed with intense interest at the unwonted
sights they passed, the semi-tropical vegetation, the long,
narrow, four-wheeled carts with their teams of oxen, the
mole constructed across some three-quarters of the mouth
of the Douro to increase the scour through the remainder,
then, passing a stretch of sandhills, they finally reached
the houses of Leixos, with lying below them the harbour
contained within its two encircling stone piers, and,
blessed sight, the <span class="it">Enoch</span> lying at anchor therein.</p>

<p>They made a bargain with a dusky boatman for what
seemed to French a fortune of reis, and ten minutes later
they had ascended the ladder and were once more on the
steamer’s deck.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</span><span epub:type="label">FRENCH PROPOUNDS A RIDDLE</span></h2>

<p>If Captain Davis experienced surprise on seeing French
reappear at the door of his cabin, he gave no indication of
his feelings.</p>

<p>“Good-afternoon, Inspector,” he greeted him quietly.
“Come aboard again? You should have stayed with us,
you know.” He smiled quizzically. “It would have been
much less tiring than going all that way round by land,
and for the matter of that, a good deal cheaper. Found
your criminals?”</p>

<p>“Well, I’ve not,” French answered slowly, “—yet.
But I hope to soon. Captain, I’ve had a wire from the
Yard that those people are on board after all.”</p>

<p>The Captain frowned.</p>

<p>“No doubt the Yard is a wonderfully efficient organisation,”
he said gravely, “but when it comes to telling me
who is or is not aboard my ship—well, I think that is a
trifle, shall we say, thick? How do they profess to
know?”</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you. I got a wire shortly after the ship left
Havre on Saturday, and it said that one of the Liverpool
detectives, Sergeant Mackay, was watching your ship before
she sailed. He was looking out for a man also
wanted for murder, not this Vane—a different person
altogether. He saw the Vanes going on board, though,
of course, he did not realise they also were wanted. But
he saw them right enough, at least, he was able to convince
the Yard as to their identity. Mackay waited until
the ship sailed, and he states the Vanes did not go ashore.
I know Mackay personally, and he is a most careful and
accurate officer. I am satisfied that if he makes this statement
it is true. Now, none of your people saw them go
ashore, and with all due respect to you and your purser,
the suggestion is that they’re still on board. The wire
ended by instructing me to follow up the ship either here
or to Lisbon, and investigate further.”</p>

<p>“You’ve certainly followed us up all right, but having
overtaken us I should like to ask, if it is not an indiscreet
question, what you propose to do next?”</p>

<p>French saw that if he was to retain the help of Captain
Davis he would have to be careful how he answered.</p>

<p>“There, Captain, I was going to ask for your kind help,
though I feel I have troubled you more than enough
already. I’ll tell you what I was thinking over in the
train. Suppose for argument’s sake the Yard is right,
and that these people really are on board. It is obvious
from your search that they’re not here in their own
characters, therefore they must be posing as two other
people. That, I take it, is what the people at the Yard
had in mind also.”</p>

<p>“Well?”</p>

<p>“This is not such an unlikely supposition as it sounds.
The woman is, or rather was, an actress, and we know she
is a clever one. Not only was she well thought of when
on the stage, but she has recently carried off successfully
a far stiffer test than that. She crossed from New York
to Southampton on the <span class="it">Olympic</span>, and convinced the people
on board that she was English, and then she went on to
London and convinced the people there that she was an
American. I have seen the people in each case—critical,
competent people who know the world—and each lot
ridiculed the idea that she was not what she seemed. If
she could do that, she could surely manage another impersonation.
A comparatively simple disguise would do,
as there would be nothing to make you or the purser
suspect.”</p>

<p>The Captain was listening with considerable interest,
but it was evident that his ruffled feelings were not yet
entirely smoothed down.</p>

<p>“That may be all very well,” he admitted, “but you
have not taken into consideration the evidence of the
bookings. 176 passengers booked from Liverpool, and
in almost every case their tickets were taken and their
staterooms reserved several days in advance. The exceptions
in all cases were men. 176 passengers turned up,
Mr. and Mrs. Vane among them. But there were only
174 passengers on board when we left Liverpool. You
follow what I mean; that all the other passengers on
board are accounted for?”</p>

<p>“I see that,” French admitted slowly, “and you may
be right. It certainly doesn’t seem easy to answer what
you say. At the same time, in the face of the instructions
I have had from the Yard, I daren’t do other than
go on and sift the thing further.”</p>

<p>“Naturally, but how?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know. I don’t see my way clear as yet. For
one thing, I shall have to meet every woman on board,
with the special object of trying to penetrate any disguise
which may have been attempted. If that fails I may
give up the search or I may try something else. I suppose
you can take me on as far as Lisbon at all events?”</p>

<p>“With pleasure.” The Captain seemed to have recovered
from his momentary irritation. “Let me know
if there is anything I can do to help you. Though I
confess I think you’re on a wild goose chase, I’ll give
you every facility I can.”</p>

<p>“Thank you, Captain. You will understand that whatever
I may think myself, I am not my own master in the
matter. The only thing I should like at present is a chat
with the purser over the passenger list.”</p>

<p>“That, at all events, is easily arranged,” answered Captain
Davis as he touched a bell.</p>

<p>The purser had not observed French’s arrival, and
professed amazement on finding him on board.</p>

<p>“I begin to wonder if the ship’s not haunted,” he smiled
as he shook hands. “Mr. and Mrs. Vane we leave behind
at Liverpool, and you say they’re aboard at Havre. You
we leave behind at Havre—I saw you myself on the
wharf—and here you are aboard at Leixoes! What distinguished
stranger are we to expect to find on board
at Lisbon?”</p>

<p>“I hope there’ll be a clearance of four at Lisbon,”
French rejoined. “Though it sounds impolite, nothing
would please me better than to change to a homeward
bounder in company with my Sergeant and Mr. and
Mrs. Vane.”</p>

<p>“What? Do you still think they’re on board?”</p>

<p>“The Inspector still thinks so,” the Captain intervened,
“and he wants to talk to you about it. Better
take him to your cabin and give him any help you can.”</p>

<p>“Right, sir. Will you come along, Mr. French?”</p>

<p>Mr. Jennings, in spite of his obvious competence, had
a pleasant, leisurely manner which conveyed to the many
who sought his counsel that though he might be busy
enough at other times, he was not too hurried at that
moment to give them his most careful and undivided attention.
So he listened to French’s story, and so he took
out the passenger list, and set himself to discuss the personalities
of those enumerated thereon.</p>

<p>“I’ll deal with the women first,” French explained.
“You say that there are sixty-seven on board, as against
about twice as many men. Besides, I have more information
about Mrs. Vane than her husband. Now, if you
don’t mind, let’s get on with them.”</p>

<p>The purser ran his finger down the list.</p>

<p>“Miss Ackfield is the first,” he explained. “She is
a lady of between fifty and sixty, I should say. You can
easily see her, but in my opinion there is not the slightest
chance that she could be otherwise than what she seems.”</p>

<p>French noted the particulars.</p>

<p>“Right,” he said. “Next, please.”</p>

<p>“The next is Miss Bond. She’s also pretty well on in
years, but she couldn’t be your friend because she’s at
least four inches taller.”</p>

<p>“Very good.”</p>

<p>“Then there is Mrs. Brent. She is a young girl.
Her husband is on board, and they are evidently newly
married. She’s too young.”</p>

<p>They worked on down the list, provisionally eliminating
the unlikely. Mrs. Cox was too tall, Miss Duffield too
short, Mrs. Eaglefield too stout, Miss Felton too thin,
and so on. In the end they had reduced the number to
ten, of which French had to admit that not one seemed
in the least promising.</p>

<p>There was indeed one couple who had at first appealed
to him, a Mr. Pereira da Silva, and his daughter, Miss
Maria da Silva, because they kept almost entirely to
their cabins, mixing but little with the life of the ship.
Mr. da Silva, a man of over seventy, Mr. Jennings
thought, was an invalid, and had come on board with
difficulty, leaning on a stick and his daughter’s arm. He
was practically confined to bed, and Miss da Silva was
assiduous in her attention to him, reading to him and
keeping him company when many another similarly placed
daughter would have been on deck or in the saloon, amusing
herself among the other passengers. The two had
their meals together, and the lady, though friendly enough
when she did go on deck or when occasionally she sat in
the saloon, was but rarely seen. This was, thought
French, a likely enough ruse for the fugitives to adopt,
and his suspicions were strengthened by the fact that
Miss da Silva’s general appearance was not unlike that
of Mrs. Vane. But Mr. Jennings soon demolished his
house of cards. The da Silvas were obviously Brazilian.
They, or rather the girl, for the old man had been too
feeble even to deal with the business of the tickets, spoke
fluent Portuguese, the Portuguese of a native, and her
English was not only broken, but was spoken as a Portuguese
alone speaks it. Besides, she looked like a
Portuguese. They lived at Rio, so Mr. Jennings had
gathered, and had visited England to see Mr. da Silva’s
brother, a London merchant. They had booked to Para,
near where other relatives lived, and from where they
would return to Rio. They had taken tickets and reserved
their staterooms some time before the Vanes.</p>

<p>French was disappointed. He booked on to Lisbon on
chance, then not wishing to be seen, he retired to his
cabin, leaving Sergeant Carter to watch the ladder leading
to the shore boats.</p>

<p>As he sat smoking beside the open porthole, he kept
on racking his brains for some method of solving his
problem, but at last it was a chance word of the purser’s
that give him his idea. Mr. Jennings had dropped in
just after the ship, pushing out between the two great
stone moles of the harbour, had dipped her nose into the
deep, slow-moving Atlantic swell, and he had said: “Talking
of disguises, it’s a pity you couldn’t disguise yourself
and come into the saloon to-night, Mr. French. We
are having our first sing-song, and you would have a
good chance then of seeing the lady passengers.”</p>

<p>“That’s rather an idea,” French had replied. “Could
you not hide me somewhere, say, near the door of the
saloon through which those attending must enter, so that
I could see each as she passed?”</p>

<p>Mr. Jennings had believed it might be possible, and
had promised to see what could be done. And then as
he was taking his leave, the idea flashed into French’s
mind, and he had called him back.</p>

<p>“Don’t trouble about that business in the meantime,
Mr. Jennings. Would it be convenient to you to call
back again in half an hour? I shall have something to
ask you then.”</p>

<p>Jennings glanced at him curiously, but all he said
was “Right-o!” as he went on his business. After the
allotted span he came back, and French spoke earnestly.</p>

<p>“Look here, Mr. Jennings, if you could do something
for me you’d put me under a heavy debt of gratitude.
I’ll tell you what it is. First I want you to smuggle me
into the saloon before the concert begins, without any
one having seen me. I want to sit in some place where
I can’t be seen by a person entering until he or she is
right inside the room. Is that possible?”</p>

<p>“Why, yes, I think so. I’ll fix it for you somehow. I
take it your notion is that if the lady sees you so suddenly
and unexpectedly she will give herself away?”</p>

<p>“Quite, but there is something else, Mr. Jennings. That
scheme would only work if she knows my appearance, but
I don’t think she does. I want some one to read this
out as an item. Will you do it?”</p>

<p>He handed over a sheet of paper which he had covered
with writing during his half-hour’s wait. It read:</p>

<div class="blockquote">

<p class="line0" style="text-align:center;">“<span class="sc">Riddle.</span></p>

<p>“A prize of a 5-lb. box of chocolates is offered for
the best answer to the following riddle:</p>


          <div class="poetry-container" style="">
          <div class="lgp"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<div class="stanza-outer">
<p class="line0">“If she is Winter in Comedy,</p>
<p class="line0">    Ward in <span class="it">Olympic</span>,</p>
<p class="line0">    Root in Savoy, and</p>
<p class="line0">    Vane in Crewe,</p>
<p class="line0">What is she on the <span class="it">Enoch</span>?”</p>
</div>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

</div>

<p>Mr. Jennings looked somewhat mystified.</p>

<p>“I don’t quite get you?” he suggested.</p>

<p>“Woman’s aliases and the places where she used them.”</p>

<p>Something like admiration showed in the purser’s eyes.</p>

<p>“My word! Some notion, that! If the woman is
there and hasn’t smelt a rat, she’ll give herself away when
she hears that. But why don’t you read it yourself?”</p>

<p>“If she makes a move to leave I want to be out before
her. If she leaves, it will mean that her husband is not
present, and I want to get her before she can warn him.
Carter’ll be on the same job.”</p>

<p>“Well, I’ll read it if you like, but frankly I’d rather
you had some one else to do it.”</p>

<p>“What about Captain Davis?”</p>

<p>Jennings glanced round and sank his voice.</p>

<p>“If you take my advice, you’ll leave the old man out
of it altogether. He just mightn’t approve. He treats
the passengers as his guests, and bluffing them like that
mightn’t appeal to him.”</p>

<p>“But I’m not bluffing them,” French retorted with a
twinkle in his eye. He drew a pound note from his pocket
and passed it over. “That’s for the chocolates, and whoever
puts in the best answer gets it. It’s all perfectly
straight and above board. Whether we get the woman
over it or not no one need ever know.”</p>

<p>The purser smiled, but shook his head doubtfully.</p>

<p>“Well, it’s your funeral. Anyway, I’ve said I’ll go
through with it, and I will.”</p>

<p>“Good!” French was once more his hearty, complacent
self. “Now there is another matter if this one fails.
Mrs. Vane may stay in her cabin. I want you to check
the women present by your list, and give me a note of any
absentees. Then I shall go round their cabins and make
some excuse to see each.”</p>

<p>The purser agreed to this also. “I’ll send you some
dinner here, and at once,” he added as he rose to take
his leave, “then I’ll come for you while the passengers
are dining, and get you fixed up in the saloon.”</p>

<p>“Better send Carter here, and he can dine with me
while I explain the thing to him.”</p>

<p>When Mr. Jennings had gone, French stood in front
of his porthole gazing out over the heaving waters. Daylight
had completely gone, but there was a clear sky
and a brilliant full moon. The sea looked like a ghostly
plain of jet with, leading away across it, a huge road of
light, its edges sparkling with myriad flashes of silver. His
cabin was on the port side, and some three miles off he
could dimly trace the white line of surf beating along the
cliffs of the coast. The sea looked horribly cold, and he
turned from it with a slight shudder as the door opened
and Sergeant Carter entered.</p>

<p>“Ah, Carter, Mr. Jennings is sending us in some dinner.
We’ll have it together. I have a job on for to-night,”
and he explained his plan and the part his subordinate
was to play therein. Carter said, “Yes,
sir,” stolidly to everything, but French could see he was
impressed.</p>

<p>Shortly before eight, Mr. Jennings appeared and beckoned
his fellow-conspirators to follow him. They passed
quickly across the deck and along some passages, and
reached the saloon unobserved. There they found that
the purser had placed two arm-chairs for their use close
to the door, but hidden from outside it by screens. From
French’s chair the face of each person who entered the
room would be visible, while Carter’s was arranged so
that he could see all those of the seated audience which
were out of French’s immediate purview.</p>

<p>The concert was timed for half-past eight and before
that hour little groups of people began to arrive. French,
with a novel open on his knees, sat scrutinising unostentatiously
each person as he or she entered. Once he
stared with increased eagerness, as a dark, stoutish woman
entered with two men. It seemed to him that she bore
some resemblance to the photograph, but as he watched
her foreign gestures and as he listened to her rapid conversation
in some unknown language, he felt sure she
could not be the woman he sought. He called a passing
steward, and learned from him that she was the Miss da
Silva whom he had already suspected and acquitted in his
mind.</p>

<p>As the time drew on the saloon gradually filled, but
nowhere did he see any one whose appearance he thought
suspicious. When the hour arrived, the proceedings were
opened with a short recital by a well-known pianist who
was making the voyage to Madeira for his health.</p>

<p>French was not musical, but even if he had been he
would have paid but scant attention to the programme.
He was too busily engaged in covertly scrutinising the
faces of the men and women around him. He was dimly
conscious that the well-known pianist brought his contribution
to an end with a brilliant and highly dexterous
feat of manual gymnastics, that two ladies—or was it
three—sang, that a deep-toned basso growled out something
that he took to be a Scotch song, and that a quiet,
rather pretty girl played some pleasant-sounding melody
on a violin, when his attention was suddenly galvanised
into eager life and fixed with an expectant thrill on
what was taking place. Mr. Jennings had ascended the
platform.</p>

<p>“Ladies and gentlemen,” the purser said in his pleasantly
modulated voice, “while possibly it may be true that
the days of riddles have passed, and while it certainly is
true that the middle of a concert is not the happiest time
for asking them, still perhaps you will allow me to put
this one to you. It is a topical riddle concerning our voyage
made up by one of our company, and he offers a prize
of this large box of chocolates for the best solution. The
riddle is this, and I can let any one who cares to consider
it have a copy: ‘If she is Winter in Comedy, Ward in
<span class="it">Olympic</span>, Root in Savoy, and Vane in Crewe, what is she
aboard the <span class="it">Enoch</span>?’ ”</p>

<p>The audience listened with good-humoured attention,
and for a moment Mr. Jennings stood motionless, still
smiling pleasantly. The little buzz of conversation which
usually sprang up between the items had not yet begun,
and save for the faint, all-pervading murmur of the engines,
the gently swaying saloon was momentarily still.
Then through the silence came a slight though unexpected
sound. Miss da Silva’s handbag had slipped off her knee,
and the metal hasp had struck the parquet floor with a
sharp tap.</p>

<p>French glanced at her face with a sudden thrill. It
had gone a queer shade of yellowish brown, and her hand,
hanging down by her side, was clenched till the knuckles
showed the same livid brownish hue. She evidently had
not noticed her bag fall, and in her fixed and staring eyes
there grew the shadow of a terrible fear. No one but
French seemed to have noticed her emotion, and a man
beside her stooped to pick up the bag. At the same time
the silence was broken by a stout, military-looking old
gentleman, who with some “Ha, ha’s!” and “Be Gad’s!”
adjured the company to set about solving the puzzle, and
conversation became general. Miss da Silva rose quietly
and moved rather unsteadily towards the door.</p>

<p>For French to get up and open the door for her was
an act of common politeness. With a slight bow he held
it as she passed through, then following her immediately,
he closed it behind him.</p>

<p>They were alone in the passage leading to the companion-way,
and as he glanced keenly at her face he felt
no further doubt. Disguised by some adroit alterations
to hair and eyebrows, and, he believed, with a differently-shaped
set of false teeth, a darkened complexion and
glasses, there stood before him the original of the photographs.
He laid his hand on her arm.</p>

<p>“Miss Winter,” he said gravely, “I am Inspector French
of Scotland Yard. I arrest you on a charge of being
concerned in the murder of Charles Gething and the theft
of precious stones and money from Messrs. Duke &amp; Peabody’s
on the 25th of November last.”</p>

<p>The woman did not reply, but like a flash her free arm
went to her mouth. French grasped wildly and caught
it. She gulped, and at the same moment reeled. French,
himself trembling and with beads of perspiration on his
forehead, laid her gently on the floor, where she lay unconscious.
He hastily stepped back into the saloon, and
moved quietly to where he had seen the ship’s doctor sitting,
whispered in his ear. Sergeant Carter got up at
the same moment, and a second later the two detectives
stood looking down with troubled faces, while Dr. Sandiford
knelt beside the motionless figure on the floor.</p>

<p>“Good God!” he cried at once, “she’s dead!” He put
his nose to her lips. “Prussic acid!” He gazed up at his
companions with a countenance of horrified surprise.</p>

<p>“Yes; suicide,” said French shortly. “Get her moved
to my cabin before any one comes.”</p>

<p>The doctor, ignorant of the circumstances, looked at
the other with a sudden suspicion, but on French’s hurried
explanation he nodded, and the three men bore the
still form off and laid it reverently on the sofa in the Inspector’s
stateroom.</p>

<p>“When you’ve examined her, tell the Captain,” French
said. “Meantime Carter and I must go and arrest the
poor creature’s husband. You might show me his cabin
when you’re through.”</p>

<p>A few seconds sufficed the doctor for his examination,
and then in silence he led the way to a cabin on the boat
deck. French knocked, and instantly opening the door,
passed inside, followed by the others.</p>

<p>It was a large, roomy stateroom, fitted up as a private
sitting-room, an open door revealing a bedroom beyond.
The room had a comfortable, used appearance. Books
and papers lay about, a box of chessmen and a pack of
cards were on a locker, while in a lounge chair lay a
woman’s crochet work. On a table stood an empty coffee
cup and the smell of a good cigar was heavy in the air.</p>

<p>In an arm-chair under the electric light, clad in a dressing-gown
and slippers, sat an old gentleman, the cigar in
one hand and a book in the other. He seemed a tall man,
and his long hair was pure white. He wore a long white
beard and moustache, and had bushy white eyebrows.
He sat staring at the intruders with surprise and apparent
annoyance.</p>

<p>But as his eyes settled on French’s face their expression
changed. Amazement, incredulity, and a growing horror
appeared in rapid succession. French advanced, but the
other sat motionless, his eyes still fixed on his visitor’s
with a dreadful intensity, like that of an animal fascinated
by a snake. And then French began to stare in his turn.
There was something familiar about those eyes. They
were a peculiar shade of dark blue that he recalled very
clearly. And there was a mole, a tiny brown mole beneath
the corner of the left one, which he had certainly
seen not long previously. So, for an appreciable time
both remained motionless, staring at one another.</p>

<p>Suddenly French recalled where he had seen that shade
of iris and that mole. With a murmur of amazement he
stepped forward. “Mr. Duke!” he cried.</p>

<p>The other with a snarl of anger was fumbling desperately
in his pocket. Like a flash, French and Carter
threw themselves on him and caught his arm as it was
half-way to his mouth. In the fingers was a tiny white
pilule. In another second he was handcuffed, and French’s
skilful fingers had passed over his clothes and abstracted
from his pocket a tiny phial containing a few more of the
little white messengers of death. At the same moment
Captain Davis appeared at the door.</p>

<p>“Shut the door, if you please, Captain,” French begged.
“The Yard was right after all. This is the man.”</p>

<p>A few sentences put the Captain in possession of the
facts, and then French gently and with real kindness in
his tones broke the news of Miss Winter’s death to his
unhappy prisoner. But the man expressed only relief.</p>

<p>“Thank God!” he cried with evidently overwhelming
emotion. “She was quicker than I. Thank God she was
in time! I don’t care what happens to myself now that
she’s out of it. If it wasn’t for my daughter”—his voice
broke—“I’d be thankful it was over. I’ve lived in hell
for the last few months. Wherever I turn I see Gething’s
eyes looking at me. It’s been hell, just <span class="it">hell</span>! I shouldn’t
wish my worst enemy to go through what I have. I admit
the whole business. All I ask is that you get on and
make an end quickly.”</p>

<p>The whole scene had been enacted so quickly that
French, after his first moment of overwhelming surprise,
had not had time to think, but presently, after the immediate
exigencies of the situation had been met, the
mystery of this amazing dénouement struck him even
more forcibly. He felt almost as if he had glimpsed the
supernatural, as if he had been present and had seen one
raised from the dead. Mr. Duke was dead, at least so until
a few minutes earlier he had unquestioningly believed.
The evidence of that death was overwhelming. And yet—it
was false! What trick had the man played? How had
he managed so completely to deceive all concerned as
to the events of that mysterious crossing from Harwich
to the Hook? French felt it would not be easy to control
his impatience until he learned how the thing had been
done, and the more he thought of the whole problem,
the more eager he grew to be back at the Yard so that
he might once again attack it, this time with the practical
certainty of clearing up all the features of the case which
still remained obscure.</p>

<p>The next afternoon they dropped anchor in the Tagus
off Lisbon, and there French transferred with his prisoner
to a homeward-bound liner. On the third morning after
they were in Liverpool, and the same night reached
London.</p>

<h2 epub:type="title"><span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</span><span epub:type="label">CONCLUSION</span></h2>

<p>Given the key of the identity of the murderer, it was
not long before Inspector French had unearthed all the
details of the murder of Charles Gething and the theft of
the diamonds, and had arranged them with a due regard
to their proper bearing and sequence. And he found, as
he had so often found before, that what had seemed a
complicated and insoluble mystery was really a very
simple happening after all. Briefly the facts which came
out, partly as the result of a renewed investigation, and
partly from Mr. Duke’s confession, were as follows:</p>

<p>Reginald Ainsley Duke had lived a happy and contented
life until a terrible calamity befell him—his wife’s
brain gave way, and with splendid physical health she
had to be removed to an asylum, a dangerous and incurable
lunatic. Though he had never been passionately
in love with her, they had been sincerely attached, and
for some time he was crushed beneath the blow. But
in his case, as in others, time softened the sharpness of
his grief, and this terrible period of his life gradually
became a hideous though fading nightmare. Then he
saw Miss Cissie Winter act at the Comedy, and feeling
attracted to her, he arranged a meeting. The attraction
proved to be mutual, and other meetings followed, as a
result of which he fell violently, overwhelmingly in love
with her. To his unbounded and ecstatic delight, he found
his passion was returned.</p>

<p>Their problem then was a common one. Obviously
they could not marry, so after much thought they did
what a good many other people would have done in their
place—set up an unconventional household. Their difficulty
was Duke’s daughter. Had it not been for her, they
would have taken no trouble to hide their predicament.
But Duke did not want any stigma to rest on her, and
with Miss Winter’s approval he decided to live a double
life and keep two establishments. A simple disguise
being necessary, he took for his model Vanderkemp, partly
because the traveller was somewhat of his own height
and build, and partly in the hope that were he at any
time followed from the office to his second dwelling, he
might be mistaken for Vanderkemp. With the help of
the actress, he evolved a make-up, consisting of a wig, a
false moustache and glasses, and exchanged his own
upright carriage for Vanderkemp’s stoop. As Duke he
retained his own personality, as Vane he wore the makeup.
Their plan had met with such success that no
suspicions were aroused. To his daughter he explained
his frequent absences by saying he had to keep in constant
touch with the Amsterdam branch, and the servants at
Pennington, the forerunner of Crewe Lodge, were given
to understand he was a traveller for a firm of engineers.</p>

<p>The arrangement worked successfully until the war
began to interfere with the profits of his business, and
then the keeping up of his two homes became a burden
greater than he could bear. For a time he struggled on,
but an insidious temptation had begun to haunt him,
and the greater his difficulties grew the stronger it became.
Here was he virtually in control of the business. His
partners gave it but little attention. Peabody was old
and doddering, and Sinnamond was well-off and spent
most of his time travelling. A little juggling with figures,
a few slight alterations to the books, and he would have
all the money he wanted. He resisted with all his strength,
but even in doing so he saw fresh ways in which the thing
could be carried out—with absolute safety, as he believed—and
eventually he fell. His plans worked as he
had expected, his financial difficulties were met, and he
congratulated himself that all would be well.</p>

<p>But there was one thing on which he had not reckoned.
He forgot that a man cannot start a deceit or a swindle
and stop when he likes. He soon discovered that each
falsified entry required some further manipulation to
buttress it up, and in spite of all his efforts he found himself
becoming more and more deeply involved. And then
came the inevitable unforeseen catastrophe. His head
clerk, Charles Gething, began to suspect. He made an
investigation, confirmed his suspicions, and with characteristic
straightforwardness showed his discoveries to his
employer, declaring that his duty required him to call in
the other partners.</p>

<p>Duke, seeing he was up against it, played for time by
stoutly swearing that Gething had made a mistake and
promising him a complete explanation and proof that all
the books were in order, if the clerk would only wait until
he got some balancing figures from the Amsterdam office.
He left that evening for Crewe Lodge, and there he told
Miss Winter the whole story. That astute lady saw that
though through the simple expedient of wearing a wedding
ring she had covered up their first departure from
orthodoxy, this was a different matter. Here discovery
would mean prison for her lover and destitution for herself.
It did not take her long to make up her mind that
there should be no discovery.</p>

<p>Exercising all her arts, she succeeded after a struggle
in bringing Duke round to her way of thinking, and the
two set their wits to work to devise a scheme by which
to safeguard themselves. Miss Winter supplied the main
idea of the plan; Duke, who was thorough rather than
brilliant, worked out the details. In short, the scheme
was to stage a robbery at the office, murder Gething, get
hold of as many stones as possible, and then make a
leisurely departure for distant and more healthy spheres.</p>

<p>Miss Winter had a complete and first-hand knowledge
both of Brazil and the United States. Her father was
English, but having as a young man been sent to Rio
as representative of his firm, he had settled down there,
married a Portuguese wife, and made his home in the
Brazilian capital. His daughter had a genius for acting,
and on her parents’ death while she was yet in her teens,
she succeeded in getting a start on the Rio stage. After
five years, she accepted an engagement with an enterprising
New York manager who had seen her act during
a visit to Brazil. Two years later she came to London,
and had there met Mr. Duke as already stated.</p>

<p>This knowledge of Brazil and America supplied the
foundation of her scheme. Brazil represented an ideal
country to which to retire after the crime, and their first
care was to arrange a line of retreat thereto. They were
well known in the neighbourhood as Mr. and Mrs. Vane
and had no difficulty in getting the certificates and letters
of recommendation necessary to obtain their Brazilian
passports. Having received the passports, Duke forged
similar certificates and letters in the names of da Silva,
and having with the aid of Miss Winter’s theatrical knowledge
made themselves up in character, they applied at
the same office a second time, obtaining two more passports
in the assumed names. Thus they had two sets of
Brazilian passports in the names of Vane and da Silva
respectively.</p>

<p>The next point was to procure some ready money immediately
after the crime, to enable the fugitives to
purchase the necessary tickets to Brazil, and for the host
of other expenses which were certain to arise. With this
object, the visit of Mrs. Vane to New York was arranged.
She was to travel there by one line and immediately return
by another. During the voyage home she was carefully
to observe the passengers, and select the most suitable
person she could find to impersonate. She was to make
friends with this woman, find out all she could about
her, and observe her carefully so as to obtain as much
data as possible to help on the fraud. On arrival at
Southampton she was to see her prototype off at the
station, ascertaining her destination, then going to some
hotel, she was to make the necessary changes in her appearance,
proceed to London in her new character, and
put up where she was unlikely to meet the other. On the
next day she was to interview Williams, and if all had
gone well up to this point she was to telephone to Duke
from a public call office, so that he could proceed with his
part of the affair. Finally she was to meet him at 9.45
on the next evening on the emergency staircase of the Holborn
Tube station to obtain from him the portion of the
spoils destined for Williams.</p>

<p>In the meantime, Duke was to pacify Gething by
promising him a full explanation of the apparent discrepancies,
together with a sight of the actual cash needed
to put matters right, on the receipt of certain letters from
America. He was also to get together as large a collection
of stones as he possibly could. He was then to ask
Gething to meet him at the office on the evening in question—the
evening of the day of Miss Winter’s first
interview with Williams—to go into the whole matter
and see the proofs that all was right. Having thus got
Gething into his power, he was to murder him, take out
the diamonds and some money that was also in the safe,
and having handed over to Miss Winter the few stones
for Williams, go home as quickly as possible with the
remainder.</p>

<p>Though this scheme seemed to them good, the conspirators
were not satisfied with it, and they added on
three additional features to safeguard themselves still
further in the event of suspicion being aroused.</p>

<p>The first of these was an alibi for Mr. Duke. He arranged
that he would dine and spend the evening at his
club with his solicitor, leaving at a certain definite prearranged
hour. By suitable remarks to the solicitor and
the club porters, he would fix this hour, and by similar
remarks to his servants he would establish the time at
which he reached his house. The interval between would
be sufficient to enable him to walk home, and he would
take care to inform the police that he had so occupied it.
But in reality he would taxi from near the club to near
the office, commit the murder, and return to Hampstead
by tube.</p>

<p>The second safeguard took the form of an attempt to
throw suspicion on to Vanderkemp. In carrying this
out, Duke himself typed the secret instructions which
brought the traveller to London, and he gave Gething
orders to see Vanderkemp on his arrival, send him on his
wild goose chase to the Continent, and hand him some
of the notes of which he had reason to believe the bank
had the numbers, and which he afterwards swore were
stolen from the safe.</p>

<p>Events after the crime moved so well from the conspirators’
point of view that they did not at first put
their third safeguard into action. Indeed they began to
think that even retirement to Brazil would be unnecessary,
and that they could continue their life in London
as formerly. But the chance remark of Inspector French
to Duke that he had discovered that the elusive Mrs. X
was Miss Cissie Winter showed that their house of cards
was falling to the ground, and immediate flight became
imperative. Duke, afraid to visit Crewe Lodge, wrote
the warning in a cipher on which they had previously
agreed. But by one of those strange chances which interfere
to upset the lives and plans of mortals, just after
he had posted it the guilty pair met in a tube train.
Loitering in a passage till they were alone, Duke gave his
news by word of mouth. Then Miss Winter made the
slip which compassed their downfall—she forgot about
the cipher letter which Duke had said he had sent, and
fled, leaving the letter to fall into the hands of the police.</p>

<p>Duke then proceeded to carry out his third safeguard—to
fake a suicide in order to account for his disappearance.
This he did by means of a trick which they had carefully
worked out beforehand, and which they also intended to
employ on the Booth liner to put the detectives off in case
suspicion should be aroused. In his personality of Duke,
he bought at Cook’s office a return ticket from London to
Amsterdam via Harwich, engaging his berth for that
night and impressing his identity on the clerk. He then
went on to Liverpool Street and in his personality of Vane
he took a return ticket from London to Brussels by the
same route. As Duke he had the passport he used on
his occasional visits to Amsterdam. As Vane he had
obtained a passport for Holland and Belgium some
eighteen months earlier, when he and Miss Winter had
gone there for a short holiday.</p>

<p>As Duke he travelled down on the boat train to Harwich,
choosing his carriage so that he would be among the
first on board. He gave up his ticket at the office, received
his landing ticket, and was shown to his cabin. There
he arranged his things and left the note for his daughter.
Then he put on his Vane make-up, slipped out of the
cabin unobserved, and joining the last stragglers from the
train, presented his second ticket and was shown to the
cabin he had reserved as Vane. As Vane next day he went
ashore, leaving behind him incontrovertible evidence of
the death of Duke.</p>

<p>At Rotterdam he took tickets for return via Hull, and
travelling to Leeds, put up at the Victory Hotel until the
date of the sailing of the <span class="it">Enoch</span>. He and Miss Winter
joined forces in the train between Leeds and Liverpool,
and on going on board the liner they attempted to throw
any pursuing detective off the scent by carrying out the
same ruse by which Duke had faked his suicide. They
had taken two sets of tickets—one set at Cook’s to
Manáos in the name of Vane, and the other at the Booth
Line offices to Para in the name of da Silva, and had
engaged staterooms and tried to impress their personalities
on the clerks on each occasion. They had further
provided themselves with sets of large and small suitcases.
The small ones, in which they packed their clothes
and the diamonds, they labelled “da Silva,” the large
ones they labelled “Vane.” They then put the “da Silva”
suitcases inside the “Vane,” went on board as Vane, and
were shown to their cabin. As Vane, they went back to
purser and said they were going ashore. They went out
on deck in the direction of the gangway, but instead of
crossing it they regained their cabin, made up as the
da Silvas, took out their small da Silva suitcases, and
slipping unseen from the cabin, returned to the Purser as
having just come on board.</p>

<p>The scheme as a whole worked out according to plan—save
for Miss Winter’s lapse in omitting to wait for and
destroy the cipher letter—but though the principals did
not know it, a coincidence took place which came within
an ace of wrecking it. When Sylvia and Harrington were
driving home from the East End on the night of the crime
they saw Mr. Duke turn out of Hatton Garden into Holborn.
He was hurrying anxiously along the pavement
with very different mien to his usual upright, leisurely
bearing. There was something furtive about his appearance,
and his face, revealed by a bright shaft of light
streaming from a confectioner’s shop, was drawn and
haggard. Fearing some ill news, Sylvia had stopped the
taxi and hurried after him, but before she had reached the
pavement he had disappeared. She did not, however,
take the matter seriously until at breakfast the next
morning he told her of the crime. Even then it never
occurred to her to suspect him; in fact, she had forgotten
the incident, but when he went on to state, as it were
casually, that he had been at his club all evening and
had walked directly home from there, she remembered.
She realised that he was lying, and suspicion was inevitable.
In desperation lest Harrington should unwittingly
give away information which might put the police
on her father’s track, she rang him up and arranged an
immediate meeting at which she warned him of the
possibilities. That afternoon Harrington called to tell
her how things had gone at the office, and then she had
overwhelmed him by insisting on the postponement of
the wedding until the affair should be cleared up. When,
however, she learned that French suspected Harrington
and herself of knowing the criminal, she thought the postponed
marriage might give direction to his investigations,
and to avoid this she gave out that the ceremony had
once again been arranged. The poor girl’s mind was
nearly unhinged thinking of what she should do in the
event of the police making an arrest, but fortunately for
her she was not called upon to make the decision.</p>

<p>It remains merely to say that some weeks later Reginald
Ainsley Duke paid the supreme penalty for his
crimes, and his daughter, hating London and England
for the terrible memories they held, allowed herself to be
persuaded for the third time to fix the date of the wedding
with Charles Harrington, and to seek happiness with him
on his brother’s ranch in Southern California. The firm
of Duke &amp; Peabody weathered the storm, and the surviving
partners did not forget the Gething sisters when
balancing their accounts.</p>
