<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV: The House in St. John’s Wood</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The House in <abbr>St.</abbr> John’s Wood</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was one of Inspector French’s most constant grumbles that a man in his position was never off duty. He might come home after a hard day’s work looking forward to a long, lazy, delightful evening with a pipe and a book, and before he had finished supper some development at headquarters might upset all his plans and drag him off forthwith to do battle with the enemies of his country’s laws. Not for him was the eight-hour day, overtime at high rates, “on call” or country allowances, expenses.⁠ ⁠… His portion was to get his work done, or take the consequences in lack of promotion or even loss of such position as he held.</p>
			<p>“And no thanks for what you carry off either,” he would complain, “though if you make a slip you hear about it before you’re an hour older.” But his eye would twinkle as he said it, and most of his friends knew that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Inspector French was making an exceedingly good thing out of his job, and was, moreover, destined by his superiors for even greater and more remunerative responsibilities in the early future.</p>
			<p>But on this evening his grouse was illustrated, if not justified. Scarcely had he sat down to his meal when a ring came to the door, and he was told that Constable Caldwell wished to speak to him.</p>
			<p>“Let him wait,” <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> French answered before her better half could speak. “Show him into the sitting-room, Eliza, and give him the evening paper.”</p>
			<p>French half rose, then sank back into his seat.</p>
			<p>“Ask him if it’s urgent,” he called after the retreating girl, partly from genuine curiosity, and partly to preserve the fiction that he was master of his own movements in his own house.</p>
			<p>“It’s not so urgent as your supper. Just let him wait,” <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> French repeated inexorably. “What difference will a minute or two make anyway?”</p>
			<p>Her view, it soon appeared, was upheld by the constable himself.</p>
			<p>“He says it’s not urgent,” Eliza corroborated, reappearing at the door. “He can wait till you’re ready.”</p>
			<p>“Very well. Let him wait,” French repeated, relieved that the incident had ended so satisfactorily, and for another fifteen minutes he continued steadily fortifying the inner man. Then taking out his pipe, he joined his visitor.</p>
			<p>“ ’Evening, Caldwell. What’s wrong now?”</p>
			<p>Caldwell, a tall, heavy-looking man of middle age, rose clumsily to his feet and saluted.</p>
			<p>“It’s that there circular of yours, sir,” he explained. “I’ve found the woman.”</p>
			<p>“The deuce you have!” French cried, pausing in the act of filling his pipe and immediately keenly interested. “Who is she?”</p>
			<p>Caldwell drew his notebook from his pocket, and slowly turned the well-thumbed pages. His deliberation irritated his quicker-witted superior.</p>
			<p>“Get along, Caldwell,” French grumbled. “Can’t you remember that much without your blessed book?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir,” the man answered. “Here it is.” He read from the book. “Her name is <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Henry Vane, and she lives in a small detached house in <abbr>St.</abbr> John’s Wood Road; Crewe Lodge is the name.”</p>
			<p>“Good!” French said heartily. “I suppose you’re sure about it?”</p>
			<p>“I think so, sir. I showed the photograph to three different parties, and they all said it was her.”</p>
			<p>This sounded promising, particularly as French remembered that Dowds, the ex-doorkeeper at the Comedy, had stated that Miss Winter’s admirer was named Vane. He invited the constable to sit down and let him hear the details, offering him at the same time a fill of tobacco.</p>
			<p>Constable Caldwell subsided gingerly into a chair as he took the proffered pouch.</p>
			<p>“Thank you, sir, I don’t mind if I do.” He slowly filled and lighted his pipe, ramming down the tobacco with an enormous thumb. “It was this way, sir. I had that there circular of yours with the woman’s photo in my pocket when I went off duty early this afternoon. On my way home I happened to meet a friend, a young lady, and I turned and walked with her. For want of something to say, so to speak, I showed her the photo, not expecting anything to come of it, you understand. Well, the moment she looked at it, ‘I know that there woman,’ she said. ‘You what?’ I said. ‘You know her? Who is she, then?’ I said. ‘She’s a woman that comes into the shop sometimes,’ she said, ‘but I don’t just remember her name, though I have heard it,’ she said. ‘I should say the young lady, her I was speaking to, worked in a drapery shop until a couple of weeks ago, though she’s out of a job at the moment. ‘Well,’ I said, ‘I’d like to know her name. Can’t you remember it?’ ‘No,’ she said, she couldn’t remember it. She’d only heard it once, and hadn’t paid much attention to it.”</p>
			<p>“Yes?” French murmured encouragingly as the constable showed signs of coming to an end.</p>
			<p>“I said that if she couldn’t remember, that maybe some of the other young ladies might know it. She wasn’t having any at first, for I had promised to take her to tea and on to the pictures, and she was set on going. But when she saw I was in earnest, she gave in, and we went round to the shop she used to work in. After asking three or four of the girls, we found one that remembered the woman all right. ‘That’s <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane,’ she said. ‘She lives up there in <abbr>St.</abbr> John’s Wood; Crewe Lodge is the name. I’ve made up her parcels often enough to know.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Good,” French approved once more in his hearty voice.</p>
			<p>“I thought I had maybe better make sure about it,” went on the constable in his slow, heavy way, “so I asked Miss Swann⁠—that was the young lady that I was with⁠—to walk round that way with me. I found the house near the Baker Street end, a small place and very shut in. I didn’t want to go up and make inquiries, so I asked Miss Swann if she’d go next door and ask if <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane was in. She went and asked, and they told her to go next door; that was to Crewe Lodge. So when I saw it was all right, I put off going to the pictures for this evening and came straight here to tell you.”</p>
			<p>French beamed on him.</p>
			<p>“You’ve done well, Constable,” he declared. “In fact, I couldn’t have done it better myself. I shall see that you don’t lose by it. Take another fill of tobacco while I get ready, and then call a taxi and we’ll go right out now.”</p>
			<p>He rang up Scotland Yard, asking for certain arrangements to be made, with the result that by the time he and Constable Caldwell reached the great building, two plain clothes men were waiting for them, one of whom handed French a small handbag and a warrant for the arrest of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane, alias <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Ward, alias <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Root of Pittsburg, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:initialism">U.S.A.</abbr> Then the four officers squeezing into the taxi, they set off for <abbr>St.</abbr> John’s Wood Road.</p>
			<p>Big Ben was striking half-past nine as they turned into Whitehall. The night was fine, but there was no moon, and outside the radius of the street lamps it was pitchy dark. The four men sat in silence after French had in a few words explained their errand to the newcomers. He and Caldwell were both in a state of suppressed excitement, French owing to the hope of an early solution of his difficulties, the constable to the possibilities of promotion which a successful issue to the expedition might involve. The other two looked upon the matter as a mere extra job of work, and showed a lamentable lack of interest in the proceedings.</p>
			<p>They pulled up at <abbr>St.</abbr> John’s Wood Road, and dismissing the taxi, followed Constable Caldwell to the gate of a carriage drive which there pierced the high stone wall separating the houses from the street. On the upper bar of the gate were the words, “Crewe Lodge.” To the right hand was a wicket gate, but both it and the larger one were closed. Inside the wall was a thick belt of trees through which the drive curved back, and, lit up through the interstices of the branches by the street lamps, the walls and gable of a small house showed dimly beyond. No light was visible from the windows, and, after a moment’s hesitation, French opened the wicket gate and all four entered.</p>
			<p>“Wait here among the trees, Pye and Frankland,” he whispered. “Caldwell, you come on with me.”</p>
			<p>The drive was short, not more than forty yards long, and the complete outline of the house was speedily revealed. It seemed even smaller than the first glance had shown, but was charmingly designed, with a broken-up roof, large bow windows, and a tiny loggia into which opened a glass panelled door. To be so near the centre of a great city, it was extraordinarily secluded, the trees and wall, together with some clumps of evergreen shrubs, cutting off all view of the road and the neighbouring houses.</p>
			<p>The front of the house was in complete darkness, and instinctively treading stealthily, the two men moved round to the side. Here also there was no light, and they pushed slowly on until they had completed the circuit and once more reached the front door.</p>
			<p>“Looks as if the place is empty,” French whispered as he pressed the electric bell.</p>
			<p>There was no response to his repeated rings. The house remained dark and silent. French turned again to the constable.</p>
			<p>“Call up those other two men,” he ordered, and soon Pye was posted at the corner between the front and side, and Frankland at that diagonally opposite, with orders to keep out of sight and to allow anyone who came to enter, but no one to leave the building.</p>
			<p>Electric torch in hand, French then began a guarded survey of the doors and windows. Finally fixing on the door opening on the loggia, he made Caldwell hold the light while, first with a bunch of skeleton keys, and then with a bit of wire, he operated on the lock. For several minutes he worked, but at last with a snap the bolt shot back, and turning the handle, the two men cautiously entered the room and closed the door behind them.</p>
			<p>They found themselves in a small, expensively-furnished sitting-room, evidently a lady’s. It was fitted up in a somewhat flamboyant and pretentious manner, as if costliness rather than good taste had been the chief consideration in its furnishing. It was unoccupied, but looked as if it had been recently used, there being ashes in the grate and books lying about, one of which lay open face downwards on a chair. On an occasional table stood an afternoon tea equipage with one used cup.</p>
			<p>French did not remain to make any closer examination, but passed on to a tiny hall, off which opened three other rooms, and from which the staircase led to the first floor. Beneath the stairs was a row of clothes-hooks on which were hanging a man’s garments, a couple of hats and coats, and a waterproof.</p>
			<p>Rapidly he glanced into the other rooms. The first was a smoking-room, a man’s room, furnished with dark-coloured, leather upholstery, and walls panelled in dark oak. Next door was a dining-room, also small, but containing a quantity of valuable silver. The fourth door led to the kitchen, scullery, pantry, and yard. Here also there were evidences of recent occupation in the general untidiness, as well as in the food which these places contained.</p>
			<p>Satisfied that no one was concealed on the ground floor, French led the way upstairs. In the largest bedroom, evidently that of the mistress of the house, there was a scene almost of confusion. Drawers and wardrobe lay open, their contents tumbled and tossed, while the floor was littered with dresses, shoes, and other dainty articles of feminine apparel. French swore beneath his breath when he saw the mess. Things were beginning to look uncommonly like as if the bird had flown. However, it was possible that someone might arrive at any minute, and he hurriedly continued his search.</p>
			<p>Next door was a man’s dressing-room and bedroom. Here there was not the same litter, nor was the unoccupied bedroom adjoining other than tidy, but in the maids’ room, which he next entered, it was evident there had been a recent clearing out. Here the wardrobe drawers were pulled out and the door of a hanging press in the wall was standing open. Papers and a few obviously worn-out garments littered the floor. But the room differed from Madame’s in that everything of value had been taken.</p>
			<p>French swore again. There seemed no doubt that he was late. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> X, alias <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane, had taken fright and fled. If so, what hint, he wondered, had she received of her danger?</p>
			<p>He stood for a moment in the disordered room, thinking. Under these new circumstances, what was his proper course?</p>
			<p>First, it was obvious that he must make absolutely sure that this <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane was really the woman he sought. Next, he must learn if she had really gone, and, if so, why, and, if possible, where. If her departure was a flight, he must find out how or by whom she had been warned. Lastly, he must follow her to her hiding-place and arrest her.</p>
			<p>But he must not end with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane. Her husband must also be found. If she was <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> X, the receiver of the stolen diamonds, possibly the murderer of old Gething, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Vane must be in it, too. It was inconceivable that he could have avoided becoming involved.</p>
			<p>His first job must therefore be to make all the inquiries he could as to the mysterious occupants of Crewe Lodge. There were several obvious lines of research. First there was the house itself. People left the impress of their personalities on the houses they inhabited, and a careful search of this one must yield considerable information as to the pair. Next there were the servants. If they could be found, their testimony might prove invaluable. From the neighbours and local tradesmen and dealers he did not expect so much, but among them all some useful hints would surely be gleaned. Lastly, there were the house agents. They might or might not be able to help.</p>
			<p>It was by this time nearly eleven, but he decided that his obvious duty was then and there to begin the search of the house, even if it meant an all-night job. He therefore called in Pye and Frankland, who were experienced in such work, leaving Constable Caldwell to patrol the grounds.</p>
			<p>Then commenced an investigation of the most meticulous and thorough description. Taking the house room by room, the three men went over with the utmost care every piece of furniture, every book, every paper, every article of clothing. Hour after hour the search proceeded in spite of a growing weariness and hunger, and it was not until half-past six on the following morning that it was complete. Then in the growing daylight the three Yard men slipped out one by one on to the road, and joining forces round the corner, walked to the nearest tube station, and went to their several houses for breakfast. French rang up the Yard from the first exchange they came to, and arranged for a man to be sent to relieve Caldwell, who had been left in charge.</p>
			<p>As French smoked his after-breakfast pipe before returning to the Yard, he jotted down in his notebook a list of the points which had struck him during the search. There was nothing that led him to either <abbr>Mr.</abbr> or <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane, but there was a certain amount that was suggestive.</p>
			<p>In the first place, it seemed evident that the departure of the lady had been sudden and unexpected. There was the evidence of the disordered bedrooms, of the used-looking sitting-room with the book evidently laid down where it could be picked up again without losing the place, of the ashes in the sitting-room fireplace and range, the used tea tray, and of the kitchen. There it appeared that cooking had been just about to begin, for a number of saucepans were on the range, and various kinds of food lay on the table as if ready for the saucepans. There was a good deal of food of various kinds about the kitchen and larder, and some wine and whisky in the dining-room sideboard. On the other hand, there was no evidence of any hurried departure on the part of the master of the house.</p>
			<p>The date of the departure French thought he could roughly fix from the condition of the food. The milk, of which there was a bowl and two jugs, was sour, but not thick. Some fresh meat hanging in the larder was good. The bread was rather dry and hard. Some lettuces lying on a shelf in the scullery had gone limp. But some bunches of chrysanthemums standing in water in the sitting-room, were quite fresh.</p>
			<p>On the whole, he thought the evidence pointed to a flight some four days earlier, and this view was supported by another piece of evidence on which he had come.</p>
			<p>In the letter box at the back of the hall door he had found a letter addressed “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane, Crewe Lodge, <abbr>St.</abbr> John’s Wood Road.” The postmark showed that it had been posted in London on the 3rd. It had, therefore, been delivered on the evening of the 3rd or morning of the 4th. But this was the 8th. Therefore the lady had gone at least four days earlier.</p>
			<p>The letter itself had considerably intrigued him. It was simply a list of certain sales and purchases of stock, covering a large number of transactions, and running into some thousands of pounds in value. The items were not dated, and there was no accompanying letter nor any intimation of the sender. It was clear that someone was engaged in complicated financial operations, but there was nothing to indicate his or her identity.</p>
			<p>That the Vanes were at least comfortably off seemed certain from the general appointments of the house. The furniture and fittings were heavy and expensive. The sitting-room was small, as has been stated, but French reckoned that the carpet would not have been bought for less than £120. Madame’s dresses were of rich silks, and while no actual jewellery had been left behind, there were costly ornaments and personal knickknacks. Moreover, the half-empty box of cigars in the smoking-room contained Corona Coronas. There was, however, no garage and no car, but it was obvious that a car might have been kept at some neighbouring establishment. Altogether it looked as if the couple had been living at the rate of two or three thousand a year. But this was a matter that could easily be tested, as the name of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane’s bank was among her papers.</p>
			<p>One other point struck the Inspector as curious. Neither the master nor the mistress of the house seemed to have literary tastes. There was a number of well-bound “standard works” in a bookcase in the smoking-room, but it was evident from their condition that they were there purely as part of the decorative scheme. Of actually read books in the smoking-room there were none. In the sitting-room were a number of the lighter type of novels, together with a number in French and Spanish with extremely lurid and compromising jackets. But among these, as out of place as an Elijah at a feast of Baal, lay a new copy of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">The Concise Oxford Dictionary</i>.</p>
			<p>There were several old bills in Madame’s inlaid davenport, but save for the names of firms with whom the lady had recently been dealing, French had learned nothing from them. In the sitting-room also was an excellent cabinet photograph of a lady who seemed to him the original of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Root’s steamer snapshot, and this he had slipped into his jacket pocket.</p>
			<p>Having completed his notes, he knocked the ashes out of his pipe and set out upon the business of the day. Returning to <abbr>St.</abbr> John’s Wood Road, he interviewed Esler, the constable who had been sent to relieve Caldwell, and learned that no one had as yet approached the house. Then he began to call at the adjoining houses and nearer shops. At each he stated that he was looking for <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane, but that her house was shut up, and asked if anyone could tell him how he might find her.</p>
			<p>Aware that in a great city neighbours might live beside each other for years without ever meeting, he did not hope for much result, and at the first two houses at which he called he did not get any. But at the third he had an unexpected stroke of luck. The maid who opened the door seemed to know something about the Vane household. But she was suspicious, and on French’s putting his usual questions, showed evident unwillingness to give away information. Keeping any suggestion of eagerness out of his manner, French went on conversationally:</p>
			<p>“I wanted to see <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane about a question of the ownership of a field in the country near Canterbury, where she used to live. I represent <abbr>Messrs.</abbr> Hill &amp; Lewesham, the solicitors of Lincoln’s Inn, and we want some information about the boundaries of her father’s place. It’s not exactly important, but it would be worth five shillings to me to get in touch with her, and if you could see your way to help me, you’d have very fairly earned it.”</p>
			<p>The girl seemed impressed. She glanced back into the hall, came out into the porch, and drawing the door to after her, spoke rather hurriedly.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know much about it,” she explained, “but I’ll tell you what I can,” and she went on to say that on the previous Friday, that was five days earlier, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane had got a cable that her husband in New York had met with a serious accident and was dying, and for her to go at once. She had packed hurriedly and driven off to catch the boat train for Liverpool, closing the house. As to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Vane himself, the girl knew nothing. She seemed to consider him a negligible part of the establishment. He was but seldom at home, and even then was rarely to be seen.</p>
			<p>French asked her how it came that she knew so much about the family, and she explained that she and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane’s housemaid had become acquainted over her young gentleman’s model aeroplane, which had flown over the dividing wall into the grounds of Crewe Lodge, and which had been ignominiously handed back by the girl in question. As a result of the incident an acquaintance had grown up between the two, in the course of which much information as to their respective employers had been exchanged. On that Friday evening <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane’s maid had called the narrator to the wall by means of a certain signal which they had devised, and had hurriedly told her of her mistress’s sudden call to America, and also that the house was being closed and the services of herself and the cook dispensed with. “She’s in a most terrible fluster to catch the boat train,” the girl had said, “and we have to be out before her so that she may lock up the house.” The girl had breathlessly bid her friend goodbye and had vanished.</p>
			<p>Though French was delighted to have learned these facts, they were not in themselves all that he could have wished. The story of the husband in New York might be true, in which case a good deal of the theory he had been building up would fall to the ground. It would, however, be an easy matter to find out whether the lady really did sail on the date in question. He turned back to the servant.</p>
			<p>“I should like very much to find that friend of yours,” he said. “Could you give me her name and address?”</p>
			<p>Her name, it appeared, was Susan Scott, but her address was not known. For a moment French was at a loss, then by judicious questions he elicited the facts that Miss Scott spoke like a Londoner, and that she probably patronised one of the several registry offices to be found in the region surrounding the Edgware Road.</p>
			<p>“Now there is just one other thing,” he added. “Can you tell me the name of the landlord or agents of Crewe Lodge?”</p>
			<p>The girl was sorry she couldn’t.</p>
			<p>“Then of this house?” French persisted. “As they are close together, the two places may belong to the same man.”</p>
			<p>The girl did not know that either, but she said that her master would know, and that he had not yet gone out. French asked for an interview, and on stating his identity, received the information that the agents for both houses were <abbr>Messrs.</abbr> Findlater &amp; Hynd, of Cupples Street, behind the Haymarket.</p>
			<p>Thinking he had got all the information he could, French paid over his five shillings to the maid and took his departure.</p>
			<p>The next item on his programme was a visit to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Williams, and twenty minutes later he pushed open the door of the office in Cockspur Street. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Williams greeted him with what with him took the place of enthusiasm.</p>
			<p>“Good day, Inspector,” he exclaimed, “I’m glad to see you. You bring me some good news, I hope?”</p>
			<p>French sat down and drew from his pocket the cabinet photograph of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane which he had found in that lady’s sitting-room.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Williams,” he answered quietly, “whether that will be news to you or not.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Williams’s eyes flashed with excitement as he saw the portrait.</p>
			<p>“Bless my soul!” he cried. “Have you found her at last? <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Root!”</p>
			<p>“That’s what I wanted to ask you. Are you sure it is <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Root?”</p>
			<p>“Sure? Absolutely positive. At least, that’s the woman who got my three thousand pounds, whatever her name may be. Have you found her?”</p>
			<p>“Well no,” French admitted. “I’ve not found her yet. But I’m in hopes.”</p>
			<p>“Tell me about it.”</p>
			<p>“Unfortunately, there’s not much to tell. I’ve got information to the effect that this woman, the original of the photograph, left for New York last Friday. I don’t know if it’s true. If it is, the American police will get her on the ship.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Williams pressed for details, but French was reticent. However, before leaving he promised to let the other know the result of his further inquiries.</p>
			<p>From Cockspur Street it was but a short distance to the office of the house agents, <abbr>Messrs.</abbr> Findlater &amp; Hynd. Here French saw <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Hynd, and learned that the firm were agents for Crewe Lodge. But beyond this fact he learned little of interest and nothing helpful. The house had been taken five years previously by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane, though <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Vane had signed the lease. They were very desirable tenants, paying their rent promptly and not demanding continual repairs.</p>
			<p>“One more call before lunch,” French thought, and a few minutes later he turned into the office of the White Star line. Here, though it did not exactly surprise him, he received some information which gave him considerably to think, and incidentally reassured him that at last he was on the right track. No steamer, either of the White Star or of any other line, had left Liverpool for America before the previous Saturday afternoon, and there was no boat train from Euston on the Friday night.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Vane was therefore without any doubt the woman of whom he was in search, and her departure was definitely a flight.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
